dummy	Multiparametric imaging to evaluate human and mouse breast carcinoma in situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Expression of periostin in breast cancer cells	Periostin (POSTN) is a protein involved in multiple processes important for cancer development, both at the stage of cancer initiation and progression, as well as metastasis. The aim of this study was to determine the expression of POSTN in the cells of non-invasive ductal breast carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) and to correlate it with clinicopathological data Immunohistochemical studies (IHC) were conducted on 21 cases of fibrocystic breast change (FC), 44 cases of DCIS and 92 cases of IDC. POSTN expression at mRNA (real-time PCR) and protein level (western blot analysis) was also confirmed in selected breast cancer cell lines (MCF-7, SK-BR-3, MDA-MB-231 and BO2). Statistically significant higher level of POSTN expression in IDC and DCIS cancer cells compared to FC was noted. Also, the level of POSTN expression in the cytoplasm of IDC cells was shown to increase with the increasing degree of tumour malignancy (G) and significantly higher expression of POSTN was observed in each degree of tumour malignancy (G) relative to FC. Statistically significant higher POSTN expression was observed in tumours with estrogen receptor-negative (ER-) and progesterone receptor-negative (PR-) phenotypes in comparison to estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) and progesterone receptor-positive (PR+) cases, as well as significant negative correlation between POSTN expression in cancer cells and expression of ER and PR (p<0.05). Additionally, statistically significant differences in POSTN expression were shown between particular breast cancer cell lines, both at mRNA and protein level. Observed POSTN expression was the lowest in the case of MCF-7, and the highest in MDA-MB-231 and BO2 of the most aggressive potential clinically corresponding to G3 tumours. POSTN expression in the cytoplasm of IDC cancer cells may play an important role in cancer transformation mechanism.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Loss of Tpm4.1 leads to disruption of cell-cell adhesions and invasive behavior in breast epithelial cells via increased Rac1 signaling	Here we report the identification and characterization of a novel high molecular weight isoform of tropomyosin, Tpm4.1, expressed from the human TPM4 gene. Tpm4.1 expression is down-regulated in a subset of breast cancer cells compared with untransformed MCF10A breast epithelial cells and in highly metastatic breast cancer cell lines derived from poorly metastatic MDA-MD-231 cells. In addition, patients with invasive ductal breast carcinoma show decreased TPM4 expression compared with patients with ductal breast carcinoma in situ, and low TPM4 expression is associated with poor prognosis. Loss of Tpm4.1 using siRNA in MCF10A cells increases cell migration in wound-healing and Boyden chamber assays and invasion out of spheroids as well as disruption of cell-cell adhesions. Down-regulation of Tpm4.1 in MDA-MB-231 cells leads to disruption of actin organization and increased cell invasion and dissemination from spheroids into collagen gels. The down-regulation of Tpm4.1 induces Rac1-mediated alteration of myosin IIB localization, and pharmacologic inhibition of Rac1 or down-regulation of myosin IIB using siRNA inhibits the invasive phenotypes in MCF10A cells. Thus Tpm4.1 plays an important role in blocking invasive behaviors through Rac1-myosin IIB signaling and our findings suggest that decreased expression of Tpm4.1 might play a crucial role during tumor progression.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Plasma carotenoids and the risk of premalignant breast disease in women aged 50 and younger: a nested case-control study	To examine the association of plasma carotenoids, micronutrients in fruits, and vegetables, with risk of premalignant breast disease (PBD) in younger women.Blood samples were collected at the Siteman Cancer Center between 2008 and 2012 from 3537 women aged 50 or younger with no history of cancer or PBD. The analysis included 147 participants diagnosed with benign breast disease or breast carcinoma in situ during a 27-month follow-up and 293 controls. Cases and controls were matched on age, race/ethnicity, and date of and fasting status at blood draw. Plasma carotenoids were quantified. We used logistic regression to calculate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) and linear regression to assess racial differences in plasma carotenoids.The risk reduction between the highest and lowest tertiles varied by carotenoid, with beta-cryptoxanthin having the greatest reduction (OR 0.62; 95% CI, 0.62-1.09; P (trend) = 0.056) and total carotenoids the least (OR 0.83; 95% CI, 0.48-1.44; P (trend) = 0.12). We observed an inverse association between plasma carotenoids and risk of PBD in obese women (BMI ae<yen> 30 kg/m(2); 61 cases and 115 controls) but not lean women (BMI < 25 kg/m(2); 54 cases and 79 controls), although the interaction was not statistically significant. Compared to white women, black women had lower levels of alpha and beta-carotene and higher levels of beta-cryptoxanthin and lutein/zeaxanthin.We observed suggestive inverse associations between plasma carotenoids and risk of PBD in younger women, consistent with inverse associations reported for invasive breast cancer. Carotenoids may play a role early in breast cancer development.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Claudin-4 expression is associated with disease free survival in breast carcinoma in situ: Mean follow up of 8.2 years		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Breast carcinoma in situ: An observational study of tumor subtype, treatment and outcomes	Background & Aims: To evaluate the clinical presentation, treatment and outcome of patients with breast carcinoma in situ (BCIS) with special emphasis on the role of the tumor subtype and local treatment in these patients.Methods: Using data obtained by the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) program from 2010-2013, a retrospective, population-based cohort study was conducted to investigate tumor subtype-specific differences in various characteristics, overall survival (OS) and breast cancer-specific mortality (BCSM).Results: In all, 6867 patients with BCIS were eligible during the 2010-2013 study period. Compared with the hormone receptor (HoR)+/HER-subgroup, patients with triple negative (TN) breast cancer were more likely to have tumors that were higher in grade and larger in size; they were also more likely to have tumors with ductal and comedo histology and were less likely to have tumors with cribriform and papillary histology (each P < 0.05). During the follow-up period, patients with TN breast cancer had an OS of 97.0% compared with 98.6 % in the HoR+/HER-subgroup (P < 0.05). Furthermore, the BCSM rate was 1.0% for the TN group compared with 0.1% for the HoR+/HER-subgroup (P < 0.05). Multivariate analysis revealed that patients with TN MBC had a poorer OS and BCSM (P < 0.05). Multivariate analysis of OS with respect to the local treatment history showed that patients who received breast-conserving surgery (BCS) combined with radiotherapy (R) were more likely to have an improved OS (P < 0.05). Moreover, the results demonstrated that patients who underwent SLNB were more likely to have a lower BCSM (P < 0.05).Conclusions: The results demonstrate that BCIS appears to alter the prognosis associated with the TN subtype. Meanwhile, BCS plus R was a preferable option and resulted in survival rates that were better than those achieved with mastectomy; thus, SLNB should be considered as an appropriate assessment of axillary staging in patients with BCIS.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Differential distribution of immune cells in breast invasive carcinoma vs. breast carcinoma in situ and its significance in interpretation of immune surveillance	Immune surveillance is a highly controversial subject in both the field of immunology and cancer biology. On one hand, in spite of extensive studies, there is no cancer specific antigens identified. Yet, the organisms do exert immune response to tumors. On the other hand, it is believed that immune surveillance suppresses tumorigenesis by eradicating mutated cells. However, it is also widely known that tumorigenesis is promoted by inflammation, which is in nature immune reaction. In the present study, we tried to find immune cells in early tumor lesions for the supportive or negative evidence of immune surveillance. We used immunohistochemistry to observe the localization and distribution of immune cells in the in situ carcinoma lesions and in the invasive cancer of breast. Interestingly, we did not see immune cells in either ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) or lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) of breast, the two basic supposed early cancer forms. In contrast, we observed extensive infiltration of immune cells in the invasive breast cancer, and close contact between immune cells and tumor cells. Based on these findings, we propose that the tumor antigens of breast cancer are not derived from the gene mutation or amplification such as HER2, but rather from misplacement of epithelial cells in the mesenchymal tissue. To avoid being targeted by the immune system, the carcinoma cells exert epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Therefore, immunosurveillance could be regarded as preventing the intrusion of epithelial cells to mesenchymal tissues, and EMT is a form of immune escape by the strategy of mimicry.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Loss of MLCK leads to dleisruption of cell-cell adhesion and invasive behavior of breast epithelial cells via increased expression of EGFR and ERK/JNK signaling	Myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) expression is downregulated in breast cancer, including invasive ductal carcinoma compared with ductal breast carcinoma in situ and metastatic breast tumors. However, little is known about how loss of MLCK expression contributes to tumor progression. MLCK is a component of the actin cytoskeleton and its known role is the phosphorylation of the regulatory light chain of myosin II. To gain insights into the role of MLCK in breast cancer, we perturbed its function using small interfering RNA (siRNA) or pharmacological inhibition in untransformed breast epithelial cells (MCF10A). Loss of MLCK by siRNAs led to increased cell migration and invasion, disruption of cell-cell adhesions and enhanced formation of focal adhesions at the leading edge of migratory cells. In addition, downregulation of MLCK cooperated with HER2 in MCF10A cells to promote cell migration and invasion and low levels of MLCK is associated with a poor prognosis in HER2-positive breast cancer patients. Associated with these altered migratory behaviors were increased expression of epidermal growth factor receptor and activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase signaling pathways in MLCK downregulated MCF10A cells. By contrast, inhibition of the kinase function of MLCK using pharmacological agents inhibited cell migration and invasion, and did not affect cellular adhesions. Our results show that loss of MLCK contributes to the migratory properties of epithelial cells resulting from changes in cell-cell and cell-matrix adhesions, and increased epidermal growth factor receptor signaling. These findings suggest that decreased expression of MLCK may have a critical role during tumor progression by facilitating the metastatic potential of tumor cells.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Down-regulation of a high molecular weight tropomyosin Tpm4.1 leads to disruption of cell-cell adhesions and invasive behavior in breast epithelial cells.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Octreotide LAR and tamoxifen versus tamoxifen in phase III randomize early breast cancer trials: NCIC CTG MA.14 and NSABP B-29	NCIC CTG MA.14 and NSABP B-29 trials examined the addition of Octreotide LAR (OCT) to 5 years of tamoxifen (TAM). Gallbladder toxicity led to B-29 discontinuation of OCT, and MA.14 OCT administration shortened to 2 years. Median follow-up was 9.8 years for 667 MA.14 patients and 6.8 years for 893 B-29 patients. The primary endpoint was disease-free survival (DFS), defined as time from randomization to time of breast cancer recurrence; second primary cancer other than squamous or basal cell skin carcinoma, cervical carcinoma in situ, or lobular breast carcinoma in situ; or death. The primary statistical test was a univariable pooled stratified log-rank test; multivariable assessment was with Cox regression. For MA.14, 97 % of patients were a parts per thousand yen50 years; for B-29, 62 %. MA.14 patients were 53 % lymph node negative (LN-) while B-29 were 100 % LN-; 33 % of MA.14 patients received adjuvant chemotherapy, 2 % concurrently, while B-29 had 53 % concurrent chemotherapy. MA.14 patients were 90% hormone receptor positive; B-29, 100 %. MA.14 patients experienced 5-year DFS of 80 % with TAM, 76 % with TAM + OCT; B-29 patients had 5-year DFS of 88 % for both arms. Pooled univariable TAM + OCT to TAM hazard ratio (HR) was 0.99 (95% CI 0.81-1.20; p = 0.69): for MA.14, HR = 0.94 (0.73-1.20; p = 0.50); for B-29, HR = 1.09 (0.80-1.50; p = 0.59). Multivariable pooled HR = 0.98 (0.81-1.20; p = 0.84). Older patients (p < 0.001), with higher T stage (p < 0.001), and LN + (p < 0.001) had shorter DFS. Addition of OCT to TAM did not significantly improve DFS; gallbladder toxicity shortened the additional administration of OCT. This does not negate targeting the insulin-IGF-I receptor family with less toxic therapeutics.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Expression of Notch1 Correlates with Breast Cancer Progression and Prognosis	Various studies have evaluated the significance of Notch1 expression in breast cancer, but the results have ever been disputed. By using 21 studies involving 3867 patients, this meta-analysis revealed that the expression of Notch1 was significantly higher in breast cancer than in normal tissues (OR=7.21; 95% CI, 4.7-11.07) and that higher Notch1 expression was associated with transition from ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) to invasive cancer (OR=3.75; 95% CI, 1.8-7.78). Higher Notch1 activity was observed in the basal subtype of breast cancer (OR=2.53; 95% CI, 1.18-5.43). Moreover, patients with Notch1 overexpression exhibited significantly worse overall and recurrence-free survival. Our meta-analysis suggests that Notch inhibitors may be useful in blocking the early progression of DCIS and that the outcomes of clinical trials for Notch1-targeting therapeutics could be improved by the molecular stratification of breast cancer patients.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	The prognostic role of HER2 expression in ductal breast carcinoma in situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Breast carcinoma in situ in women with BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations: a single institution review		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Improved Detection for Breast Myoepithelial Cells By A New Clone of Smooth Muscle Myosin Heavy Chain Antibody		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Acoustic radiation force impulse elastography for differentiation of malignant and benign breast lesions: a meta-analysis	This meta-analysis was aimed to assess the diagnostic performance of acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography for the differentiation of malignant and benign breast lesions. The databases of PubMed, Web of Science (TM), WanFang, Vip, SinoMed and China National Knowledge Infrastructure were searched for all studies that evaluated the diagnostic performance of ARFI including virtual touch tissue quantification (VTQ) and virtual touch tissue imaging (VTI). All the studies were published prior to Mar. 21, 2014. The studies published in English or Chinese were collected. A total of 11 studies, including 1,408 breast lesions from 1,245 women, were analyzed. The values of summary sensitivity and summary specificity were 0.843 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.811-0.872) and 0.932 (95% CI: 0.913-0.948) for VTQ of ARFI, and 0.864 (95% CI: 0.799-0.914) and 0.882 (95% CI: 0.832-0.922) for VTI of ARFI, respectively. Subgroup analysis excluding mucinous carcinoma and carcinoma in situ showed higher summary sensitivity (0.877 95% CI: 0.835-0.911), higher summary specificity (0.943 95% CI: 0.921-0.960) and lower heterogeneity (I-2=23.5%). The cut-off values for shear wave velocity of VTQ ranged widely from 2.89 to 6.71 m/s, while the VTI ranged narrowly from 1.37 to 1.66. In general, ARFI elastography seems to be a good method for differentiation between benign and malignant breast lesions. However, its usefulness for identifying breast mucinous carcinoma and breast carcinoma in situ is limited. VTI seems to be more reliable and repeatable than VTQ.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Re-resection rates and risk characteristics following breast conserving surgery for breast cancer and carcinoma in situ: A single-centre study of 1575 consecutive cases	Objectives: To examine the frequency of re-resections and describe risk characteristics: invasive carcinoma or carcinoma in situ (CIS), palpability of the lesion, and neoadjuvant chemotherapy.Results: 1703 breast conserving surgeries were performed: 1575 primary breast conserving surgeries (BCS), and 128 diagnostic excisions (DE). 176 BCS (11.2% [9.6; 12.7]) and 100 DE had inadequate margins indicating re-resection. The overall re-resection rate was 16.2% [14.5; 18.0]. 10.3% of invasive carcinoma BCS patients, and 28.6% CIS patients underwent re-resection (relative risk (RR) 2.8 [1.9; 4.1]). Invasive lobular carcinoma (ilc) had an RR of re-resection of 2.5 [1.7; 3.8], compared with invasive ductal carcinoma (idc).Conclusion: Overall 11.2% of the BCS patients needed a re-resection. For isolated CIS (28.6%), RR of re-resection was almost three times as high compared to invasive carcinoma (10.3%). Ilc had an RR of re-resection of 2.5 compared to idc. Palpability and neoadjuvant chemotherapy did not significantly influence the risk of re-resection. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Armc8 expression was elevated during atypia-to-carcinoma progression and associated with cancer development of breast carcinoma	Armadillo repeat-containing protein 8 (Armc8) is a key factor to regulate cell membrane adhesion complex through promoting alpha-catenin degradation. However, its expression and function in human malignant tumors are largely unknown. Here, we present our study investigating Armc8 expression in tumor and non-tumor breast tissues including 45 normal epithelia, 53 lesions of hyperplasia with or without dysplasia, 22 benign tumors, and 92 carcinomas including 28 carcinomas in situ and 64 infiltrating carcinomas using immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Western blotting study. Armc8 expression was detected mainly in the cytoplasm with occasional membrane immunostaining. The positive rate of Armc8 expression in normal breast epithelia (8.9 %, four out of 45) was very low. No significant difference was found between Armc8 expression in usual ductal hyperplasia (UDH) (11.1 %, two out of 18), benign breast tumors including intraductal papilloma (10.0 %, one out of 10) and fibroadenoma (8.3 %, one out of 12), and normal breast epithelia (p > 0.05). Elevated expression of Armc8 was found in breast epithelia with dysplasia (24.0 %, six out of 25) compared to that in normal breast epithelia, UDH, and benign breast tumors (p < 0.05). Armc8 expression in breast carcinoma including breast carcinoma in situ (10/28, 35.7 %), infiltrating ductal carcinoma (60.7 %, 34/56), and infiltrating lobular carcinoma (50.0 %, 4/8) was higher than that in normal breast epithelia, UDH, benign breast tumors, and breast epithelia with dysplasia (p < 0.05). The highest expression of Armc8 was found in infiltrating breast carcinoma (59.4 %, 38/64) compared to all the other breast tissues. Higher Armc8 expression was found to be linked to lymph node metastasis and advanced tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stages (III + IV) in infiltrating breast carcinoma (p < 0.05). We further confirmed Armc8 expression in breast epithelial cell line MCF10A and breast carcinoma cell lines including MCF-7, MDA-MB-231, and ZR751 using Western blotting and immunofluorescent study. These results indicate that the elevated expression of Armc8 may be involved in carcinogenesis including atypia-to-carcinoma progression and cancer development of breast carcinoma.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Relative expression of hMena(11a) and hMena(INV) splice isoforms is a useful biomarker in development and progression of human breast carcinoma	Alternative splicing provides additional genomic complexity by producing multiple mRNAs and protein variants from any given gene. Splice variants have been identified in a large variety of cancer genes, suggesting that widespread aberrant and alternative splicing may be a consequence or even a cause of cancer. Human ortholog of mammalian enabled (hMena), a family of enabled/vasodilator-stimulated phosphoproteins (Ena/VASP), is an actin regulatory protein involved in the regulation of cell motility. hMena has been shown to have several splice variants, including the hMena(INV) isoform, expressed in invasive cancer cells, and the epithelial-specific isoform, hMena(11a). We assessed the relative mRNA expression of hMena splice variants in 50 cases of invasive ductal breast carcinoma of no special type (IDC-NST) and 45 cases of ductal breast carcinoma in situ (DCIS) with special reference to non-neoplastic breast epithelial tissues. The samples were dissected from their respective regions by laser microdissection. Our results confirmed previous reports that hMena(INV) expression is augmented during tumor progression, while hMena(11a) is downregulated. Furthermore, simultaneous expression of hMena(11a) and hMena(INV) was found only in malignant lesions, while their expression was hardly detected in normal breast tissue and benign proliferative breast lesions. These results indicate that the higher relative expression of hMena(11a) compared with hMena(INV) may predict malignant transformation in breast epithelial cells, and, furthermore, a reversal of expression of hMena(11a) and hMena(INV) may dictate the state of cancer progression. Here, we demonstrate that determination of hMenalla and hMena' expression could be a useful biomarker for predicting malignant behavior in breast epithelial lesions, and show that their relative expression is linked to adverse prognostic factors. Although the biological activity of the majority of alternatively spliced isoforms and their contribution to cancer biology has yet to be determined, their elucidation will have a large impact on therapeutic strategies for cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	The CDC42-Interacting Protein 4 Controls Epithelial Cell Cohesion and Tumor Dissemination	The role of endocytic proteins and the molecular mechanisms underlying epithelial cell cohesion and tumor dissemination are not well understood. Here, we report that the endocytic F-BAR-containing CDC42-interacting protein 4 (CIP4) is required for ERBB2-and TGF-beta 1-induced cell scattering, breast cancer (BC) cell motility and invasion into 3D matrices, and conversion from ductal breast carcinoma in situ to invasive carcinoma in mouse xenograft models. CIP4 promotes the formation of an E-cadherin-CIP4-SRC complex that controls SRC activation, E-cadherin endocytosis, and localized phosphorylation of the myosin light chain kinase, thereby impinging on the actomyosin contractility required to generate tangential forces to break cell-cell junctions. CIP4 is upregulated in ERBB2-positive human BC, correlates with increased distant metastasis, and is an independent predictor of poor disease outcome in subsets of BC patients. Thus, it critically controls cell-cell cohesion and is required for the acquisition of an invasive phenotype in breast tumors.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Determination of HER2/neu Status A Pilot Study Comparing HER2/neu Dual In Situ Hybridization DNA Probe Cocktail Assay Performed on Cell Blocks to Immunohistochemisty and Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization Performed on Histologic Specimens	Context.-Validation of new methodologies for determining human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 gene (HER2/neu) amplification status is crucial for advancing the standard of care and determining treatment for patients with primary and/or metastatic breast carcinoma.Objective.-To compare results of HER2/neu gene amplification status by 2-color chromogenic in situ hybridization (ISH) on cell block material to HER2/neu status by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and/or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in the corresponding resection specimen or previous biopsy specimen.Design.-Formalin, thrombin, and Cellient cell blocks were prepared from cytologic samples obtained from resection specimens from 27 patients with invasive breast carcinoma. In situ hybridization was performed on cell block sections from 18 of the collected cases, on both the Ventana BenchMark ULTRA and the Ventana BenchMark XT, and the HER2/neu gene amplification status was determined. This was then compared to the HER2/neu status by IHC and/or FISH in the resection specimen or previous biopsy specimen.Results.-Comparison of HER2/neu status by ISH on the quantifiable cell block sections showed 100% correlation with the HER2/neu status determined by IHC or FISH in the corresponding histologic specimens. The results from thrombin and formalin cell blocks were statistically superior to the results from Cellient cell blocks on both Ventana instruments.Conclusions.-While further validation and study are needed, preliminary results show that the HER2/neu gene amplification status of breast carcinomas can reliably be determined on thrombin and formalin cell block material by using ISH. More consistent staining and better signal integrity was obtained with the Ventana BenchMark ULTRA than the BenchMark XT.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic utility of E-cadherin and P120 catenin cocktail immunostain in distinguishing DCIS from LCIS	Background: Breast carcinoma in situ (CIS) is classified into ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS). DCIS is treated with surgical excision while LCIS can be clinically followed with or without hormonal treatment. Thus, it is critical to distinguish DCIS from LCIS. Immunohistochemical (IHC) staining for E-cadherin is routinely used to differentiate DCIS from LCIS in diagnostically challenging cases. Circumferential diffuse membranous staining of E-cadherin is the typical pattern in DCIS, whereas LCIS lacks or shows decreased E-cadherin expression. Recent studies have shown that DCIS has membranous staining of P120 catenin and LCIS has diffuse cytoplasmic staining of P120 catenin. We developed a cocktail composed of E-cadherin and P120 catenin primary antibodies so that only one slide is needed for the double immunostains. Designs: Twenty-seven blocks of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue from 26 cases of DCIS or LCIS were retrieved from the archives of Houston Methodist Hospital. Four consecutive sections from the same blocks were used for H&E and immunohistochemical (IHC) stains. The E-cadherin antibody was a rabbit polyclonal antibody and the P120 catenin antibody was a mouse monoclonal antibody. The E-cadherin primary antibody was detected using a secondary antibody raised against rabbit antibody and was visualized with a brown color. The P120 catenin primary antibody was detected using a secondary antibody raised against mouse antibody and was visualized with a red color. Results: Using individual antibodies, 15 of 15 DCIS lesions had diffuse circumferential membranous E-cadherin staining (brown stain) or P120 catenin staining (red stain). All 12 LCIS cases showed cytoplasmic P120 red staining or loss of E-cadherin staining when the single P120 catenin or E-cadherin antibody was used. When stained with the antibody cocktail, all 15 DCIS samples showed diffuse red and brown membranous staining without cytoplasmic stain; all 12 LCIS samples showed diffuse cytoplasmic red staining for P120 catenin but no membranous staining for E-cadherin. Conclusions: 1. This antibody cocktail can be applied in daily practice on paraffin-embedded tissue and is especially useful in small biopsies with small foci of CIS lesions. 2. Immunohistochemical staining with the antibody cocktail showed 100% concordance with the traditional single antibody immunostaining using either E-cadherin or P120 catenin antibody. 3. Our antibody cocktail includes E-cadherin as a positive membranous stain for DCIS and P120 catenin as a positive cytoplasmic stain for LCIS, which may enhance accuracy and confidence in the differential diagnoses.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Classification of Recurrent MAST and NOTCH Mutations in Breast Carcinoma, a Study of Pre-Malignant Lesions Indicates Early Involvement		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Pleomorphic Lobular Carcinoma In Situ of the Breast: Clinicopathological Review of 57 Cases and a Proposed New Histopathologic Classification		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Comparison of Margin Status of Separate Cavity Margins and Lumpectomy Margins in Breast Conserving Surgery		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Findings on Excision Following a Core Needle Biopsy Diagnosis of Lobular Neoplasia: A Single Institution Experience		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Radiological and Pathological Extent of Columnar Cell Changes with Atypia (CCC-A) Diagnosed on Core Needle Biopsy (CNB) Correlates with Carcinoma Upgrade on Surgical Excision (SE)		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Findings of Magnetic Resonance Imaging-Guided Breast Biopsy: A Radiologic and Pathologic Correlation Study from a Single Institution		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Pleomorphic Lobular Carcinoma In Situ of the Breast: Clinicopathological Review of 57 Cases and a Proposed New Histopathologic Classification		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Prospective Study on Physical Activity and Risk of In Situ Breast Cancer	Background: Physical activity has been identified as protective factor for invasive breast cancer risk, whereas comparable studies on in situ carcinoma are rare.Methods: The study included data from 283,827 women of the multinational European Prospective Investigation into C7ancer and Nutrition (EPIC)-cohort study. Detailed information on different types of physical activity conducted during the prior year, such as occupational, recreational, and household activity, as well as on important cofactors, was assessed at baseline. Adjusted HRs for in situ breast cancer were estimated by Cox proportional hazards models.Results: During a median follow-up period of 11.7 years, 1,059 incidents of breast carcinoma in situ were identified, in crude and adjusted multivariable models, no associations were found for occupational, household, and recreational physical activity. Furthermore, total physical activity was not associated with risk of in situ breast cancer. Comparing moderately inactive, moderately active, and active participants with inactive study participants resulted in adjusted HRs of 0.99 [95% confidence interval (CI), 0.83-1.19], 0.99 (95% CI, 0.82-1.20), and 1.07(95% CI, 0.81-1.40), respectively (P value of trend test: 0.788). No inverse associations were found in any substrata defined by age at diagnosis or body mass index (BMI) status.Conclusions: In this large prospective study, we did not find any evidence of an association between physical activity and in situ breast cancer risk. It not by chance, the contrast between our results for carcinoma in situ and the recognized inverse association for invasive breast cancer suggests that physical activity may have stronger effects on proliferation and late stage carcinogenesis. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev; 21(12); 2209-19. (C)2012 AACR.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Postmenopausal hormone therapy and ductal carcinoma in situ: A population-based case-control study	Background and aim: The relationship between hormone therapy (HT) and invasive breast cancer has been extensively investigated, but the relationship between HT and in situ breast cancer has received relatively little attention. We examined the relationship between HT and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) among postmenopausal women who participated in a population-based case-control study in Connecticut, USA. Methods: This analysis included 1179 post-menopausal women (603 controls and 576 cases), who comprised a subset of a population-based case-control study that included all incident cases of breast carcinoma in situ (BCIS) in Connecticut and frequency-matched controls by 5-year age intervals. Results: We found no association between DCIS and ever use of any HT (adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 0.85, 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.65-1.11); of estrogen alone (adjusted OR = 0.93; 95% CI: 0.68-1.29) or of estrogen and progesterone (adjusted OR = 0.75; 95% CI: 0.52-1.08). There was also no association between DCIS and current use of these hormones. In addition, estimated risk of DCIS did not increase with duration of use of these preparations. Conclusions: These results add to a small literature that remains inconclusive. To determine whether HT poses risk of in situ breast cancer, larger studies with greater power and precise control of important covariates (e. g., mammography screening) are needed, as are meta-analyses of available data. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancers Detected by Breast MRI Screening and Ultrasound in Asymptomatic Asian Women: 8 Years of Experience in Taiwan	Background: This study investigated one-stop breast screening combining magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and ultrasound (US) in asymptomatic Asian women. Methods: 3,586 asymptomatic women (mean age, 45.3 years) were retrospectively analyzed by breast MRI followed by US. US-guided biopsy was performed when the MRI-detected lesion was confirmed by US. When the lesion was not detected on the initial US, a second-look US guided by MRI findings was performed. Then biopsy was done. MRI-positive and US-negative patients were followed up according to MRI lesion size, MRI lesion morphology, and mammographic diagnosis. Results: In total, 115 subjects had suspicious malignant lesions and received US-guided biopsy, and 47 malignant lesions, including 35 invasive cancers and 12 carcinoma in situ (CIS) lesions, were diagnosed. More than half (22/35, 63%) of the women with invasive cancer were <50 years of age, and 27 (57.4%) of the 47 cancer cases had early breast cancers. Two invasive cancers (5.7%) and 7 CIS lesions (58.3%) were found at the second-look US. The overall cancer incidence was 1.31% (47/3,586) and increased to 2.2% (78/3,586) if precancerous lesions were included. Subjects aged 41-50 years had the highest incidence of cancer detection (1.97%). Five MRI and US-negative cases had cancers found 1 year after the screening. Conclusions: The results from the one-stop breast screening in this study showed that combining MRI and US is an efficient multimodality tool for screening asymptomatic Asian women in a metropolitan area of Taiwan who had concerns about the diagnosis and radiation of mammography. Copyright (C) 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	NO EXCESS MORTALITY IN PATIENTS OF 50 YEARS AND OLDER WHO RECEIVED TREATMENT FOR CARCINOMA IN SITU OF THE BREAST		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Differences in Breast Carcinoma In Situ Between Menopausal and Premenopausal Women	Aim: To seek differences between ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) according to the menopausal status of patients and to analyze their repercussions on patient care. Patients and Methods: A multicenter retrospective study of 384 patients from 3 centers specialized in breast cancer surgery was carried out based on an analysis of the various characteristics (clinical, therapeutic, histologic, outcome) of DCIS between two groups of post- and pre-menopausal patients. Results: At the time of diagnosis, 58.6% of the patients were menopausal. Compared to these patients, DCIS in premenopausal women was more frequently associated with initial clinical signs (p=0.006), a larger tumor size (p=0.02), involved margins after initial surgery (p=0.005), and surgical re-excision (p=0.03). The mammograms of the menopausal patients indicated a worse prognosis (using the American College of Radiology Classification) (p=0.025), and according to the histology report findings, more marked comedo necrosis (p=0.01). There was no difference in the other criteria (nuclear grade, multifocality, benign lesions associated with malignancy, relapse and its time of occurrence). The use of hormone replacement therapy had no effect on these data. Conclusion: The characteristics of DCIS are similar, whether occuring before or after the menopause, but the phenotypic expression is different. Menopausal status should not be a criterion for changing patient care.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical Profiling of Ductal Carcinoma In Situ of the Breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Clinical Utility of a p63-CK7/18-CK5/14 Antibody Cocktail in Diagnostic Breast Pathology		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Incidence of HER2 Positive Quantified by FISH in Ductal Breast Carcinoma In Situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Biological Study of the Effects of GW572016 (Lapatinib) in Ras/Raf/MAK and PI3K/Akt Signaling Pathways in HER2 Positive Ductal Breast Carcinoma in Situ (DCIS)		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Prevalence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 Mutations in Women with Breast Carcinoma In Situ and Referred for Genetic Testing	Ductal and lobular carcinoma in situ (CIS) accounted for 62,280 (24.5%) of all new breast cancer diagnoses in 2009. BRCA1/2 mutations confer an extremely high risk of breast cancer, and management guidelines for BRCA1/2 mutation carriers advise close follow-up, intensive screening, and consideration of prophylactic surgery to lower this risk. The limited relevant previous data are not definitive in establishing the prevalence of BRCA1/2 mutations in breast CIS patients, creating uncertainty as to whether referral for cancer risk assessment and genetic testing is appropriate for this group. Therefore, we conducted a cross-sectional analysis of the Myriad Genetics BRCA1/2 database to determine the prevalence of these mutations in breast CIS patients. All statistical tests were 2-sided, and confidence intervals (CI) are reported at the 95% level (alpha = 0.05). The source population was 64,717 consecutive women who were not Ashkenazi Jewish, underwent BRCA1/2 testing, and provided a personal and family history of invasive breast and ovarian cancer; 7,295 (11.3%) reported a diagnosis of CIS (ductal or lobular) and had an overall 5.9% prevalence of mutated BRCA1/2 (mBRCA). Subgrouped by history (personal or family) of invasive breast and/or ovarian cancer, these CIS patients had the following prevalences of mBRCA: (1) no personal or family history, 2.3%; (2) personal history, 5.2%; (3) family history, 5%; and (4) personal and family history, 10.3%. mBRCA risk was significantly higher in women with early-onset (<50 years old) CIS than with late-onset (>= 50 years old) CIS (odds ratio (OR) = 1.5; 95% CI = 1.1-2.1). Disease onset at less than 40 years age was associated with an even higher mBRCA risk (OR = 1.8; 95% CI = 1.3-2.3). By far the largest analysis of BRCA1/2 mutation prevalence in non-Ashkenazi Jewish breast CIS patients, this study shows that early-onset CIS is associated with mBRCA1/2 in patients referred for genetic testing. When a family history of breast and/or ovarian cancer are also present, testing women with early-onset CIS may increase both the likelihood of detecting BRCA1/2 mutations and opportunities for carriers to consider additional cancer prevention strategies. Cancer Prev Res; 3(12);1579-85. (C) 2010 AACR.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	PREGNANCY-RELATED FACTORS AND THE RISK OF BREAST CARCINOMA IN SITU AND INVASIVE BREAST CANCER AMONG POSTMENOPAUSAL WOMEN IN THE CALIFORNIA TEACHERS STUDY COHORT		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Might the widespread use of statin drugs explain the increase in prevalence of breast carcinoma in situ?		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Lobular Carcinoma Progression Model: Immunohistochemical Analysis on Tissue Microarray		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Downregulation of Hematopoietic Progenitor Kinase 1 Protein Level in Ductal Carcinoma In Situ and Invasive Ductal Carcinoma of Breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	In situ Breast Cancer		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Microarray analysis of suppression subtracted hybridisation libraries identifies genes associated with breast cancer progression	Background: A major challenge of cancer research is to identify key molecules which are responsible for the development of the malignant metastatic phenotype, the major cause of cancer death.Methods: Four subtracted cDNA libraries were constructed representing mRNAs differentially expressed between benign and malignant human breast tumour cells and between micro-dissected breast carcinoma in situ and invasive carcinoma. Hundreds of differentially expressed cDNAs from the libraries were micro-arrayed and screened with mRNAs from human breast tumor cell lines and clinical specimens. Gene products were further examined by RT-PCR and correlated with clinical data.Results: The combination of subtractive hybridisation and microarray analysis has identified a panel of 15 cDNAs which shows strong correlations with estrogen receptor status, malignancy or relapse. This panel included S100P, which was associated with aneuploidy in cell lines and relapse/death in patients, and AGR2 which was associated with estrogen receptor and with patient relapse. X-box binding protein-1 is also an estrogen-dependent gene and is associated with better survival for breast cancer patients.Conclusions: The combination of subtracted cDNA libraries and microarray analysis has thus identified potential diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers and targets for cancer therapy, which have not been identified from common prognostic gene signatures.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Molecular Alterations in Pleomorphic Lobular Carcinoma In Situ (PLCIS) of the Breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Molecular signatures associated with transformation and progression to breast cancer in the isogenic MCF10 model	Comparative microarray analyses provided insight into understanding transcript changes during cancer progression; however, a reproducible signature underlying breast carcinogenesis has yet to be little available. We utilized gene expression profiling to define molecular signatures associated with transformation and cancer progression in a series of isogenic human breast cancer cell lines including a normal, benign, noninvasive and invasive carcinoma. Clustering analysis revealed four distinct expression patterns based on upregulation or downregulation patterns. These profiles proved quite useful for describing breast cancer tumorigenesis and invasiveness. Downregulation of TNFSF7, S100A4, S100A7, S100A8, and S100A9 (calcium-binding protein family), and upregulation of kallikrein-5 and thrombospondin-1 were associated with transformation and progression of breast cancer cells. Importantly, downregulation of the genes was reversed by treatment with silencing inhibitors, implying the potential roles of epigenetic inactivation in breast carcinogenesis. Exogenous expressions of S100A8 and S100A9 inhibit growth in benign and noninvasive carcinoma cells, suggesting their negative role in cell proliferation. The data presented here may facilitate the identification and functional analyses of prognostic biomarkers for breast cancer. (C) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	EXPRESSION OF CATHEPSIN-D IN HUMAN DUCTAL BREAST CARCINOMA IN SITU, INVASIVE CARCINOMAS, THEIR LYMPH NODE METASTASES, THEIR DISTANT METASTASES, CARCINOMAS WITH RECURRENCE AND IN RECURRENCE TISSUES		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	The occurrence of invasive cancers following a diagnosis of breast carcinoma in situ	Approximately 1 in every 600 women attending breast-screening programmes in the United Kingdom is diagnosed with breast carcinoma in situ (BCIS). However, there is little information on the occurrence of subsequent cancers (other than second breast cancers) in these women. We investigated the occurrence of invasive cancers in 12 836 women diagnosed with BCIS in southeast England between 1971 and 2003, using data from the Thames Cancer Registry. A greater than expected number of subsequent cancers was found for two sites: breast ( standardised incidence ratio (SIR) 1.96; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.79 - 2.14) and corpus uteri (SIR 1.42; 95% CI 1.11 - 1.78). For subsequent ipsilateral breast cancer in those treated with breast conservation, the excess was independent of the time since diagnosis of BCIS, whereas for subsequent contralateral breast cancer, there was a steady decline in excess over time. For subsequent uterine cancer, the excess became statistically significant only at 45 years after BCIS diagnosis, consistent with a treatment effect. This was further supported by Cox regression anaysis: the risk of subsequent uterine cancer was significantly increased in women receiving hormonal therapy compared with those not receiving it, with a hazard ratio of 2.97 (95% CI 1.84 - 4.80).	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Pagetoid dyskeratosis of the nipple epidermis: an incidental finding mimicking Paget's disease of the nipple	Pagetoid dyskeratosis (PD) is considered a selective keratinocytic response in which a small part of the normal population of pale keratinocytes is induced to proliferate. PD has been found incidentally in the squamous epithelium of the skin and mucosas in various locations, but not in the nipple. In cases in which PD cells are conspicuous, there is the danger of overdiagnosis. In a retrospective study, we describe the location and incidence of PD and other pale cells in the nipple epidermis, in 288 mastectomy specimens from women operated on for breast carcinoma, in situ or infiltrating, selected consecutively from our histopathologic files. In addition to the conventional histologic methods an immunohistochemical study was performed in selected cases. PD was found in 184 (63.9%) cases and was a prominent finding in 37 (12.8%) cases. Toker cells (TCs) were identified by standard light microscopy in 24 (8.3%) nipples. Paget carcinoma cells (PCCs) were found in 12 (4.2%) cases, and in 9 (3.1%) they were an incidental finding. The immunohistochemical profile of each type of pale cells was as follows: PD cells, EMA-,LMWCK-,CK7-,HMWCK+, CEA-, HER2/neu protein-, HMB45-, HPV-; TCs, EMA+, LMWCK+, CK7+, HMWCK-, CEA-, HER2/neu protein-, HMB45-, HPV-; PCCs, EMA+, LMWCK+, CK7+, HMWCK-, CEA+, HER2/neu protein+, HMB45-, HPV-. In conclusion, friction may be the stimulus for the appearance of PD cells. PD cells must be distinguished from TCs, PCCs, clear cells of Bowen's disease, pagetoid melanoma cells, cells of clear cell papulosis, koilocytes, artifactual clear cells, and glycogen-rich squamous cells. A combination of immunohistochemical markers is useful for this distinction; however, routine histologic study is usually adequate for recognizing PD. Pathologists should be familiar with the histologic features of PD in the nipple epidermis to avoid misdiagnosis.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	OSM, LIF, its receptors, and its relationship with the malignance in human breast carcinoma (in situ and in infiltrative)	IL-6 cytokine family is composed by several members. IL-6, LIF, and gp130 have been associated with cancer progression. Cytokines play an important role in tumoral growth, invasion of the vessels and development of metastases. Immunoexpressions of LIF, OSM, LIFR beta and OSMR beta were studied in benign breast lesion, in situ and infiltrating tumors by Western blot and immunohistochemistry. Percentages of positive samples to OSM, LIF and OSMR beta were higher in in situ carcinoma than in benign diseases and even higher in infiltrating tumors. gp130-positive samples was higher in infiltrating tumor than in benign diseases. All samples studied were LIFR beta-positive. Infiltrating tumors showed the most intense immunostaining to LIFR beta, OSM and OSMR beta; comparing present results revealed an association between the expression of these proteins and increasing malignancy. In conclusions, development of breast tumor increases the expression of OSM, LIF, OSMR beta, LIFR beta and gp130, and this expression may be associated with the malignancy. IL-6 family exert their action through transducer receptor gp130, and gp130 expression increase with malignance, it might be a crucial point in the development of infiltrative adenocarcinoma. The secretion of OSM and LIF by both epithelial and stromal (paracrine manner) cells seems to promote tumor growth.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Serial analysis of gene expression of lobular carcinoma in situ identifies Upregulation of metalloproteinase MMP-9 and downregulation of tight junction protein claudin 4		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Impact of additional margins on breast conserving surgery in patients with ductal carcinoma in situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Breast carcinoma in situ and the prevalence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in a large commercial database.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Ora contraceptive use and risk of breast carcinoma in situ	There is some indication that oral contraceptive use may be associated with a small increase in risk of invasive breast cancer; however, oral contraceptive use in relation to breast carcinoma in situ (BCIS) has rarely been studied. We investigated oral contraceptive use in relation to risk of BCIS in a large population-based case-control study. Female residents of Wisconsin, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire aged 20 to 74 years with a new diagnosis of BCIS (n = 1,878) were identified from state-wide tumor registries in 1997 to 2001. Age-matched female controls (n = 8,041) were randomly selected from population lists. Information on oral contraceptive use and other risk factors was collected during structured telephone interviews. Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) were estimated using logistic regression. In multivariate models, ever use of oral contraceptives was associated with a small and marginally significant increase in BCIS overall (OR, 1.11; 95% CI, 0.99-1.25) and for ductal carcinoma in situ (OR, 1.15; 95% CI, 1.01-1.31). No strong associations were detected according to age started, duration, time since first or last use, or oral contraceptive use relative to the first fullterm pregnancy. The slightly increased risk of BCIS seemed limited to former users (OR, 1.13; 95% CI, 1.00-1.27) and women without a family history of breast cancer (OR, 1.16; 95% CI, 1.01-1.32 for ever versus never use). Consistent with invasive breast cancer, these results suggest that oral contraceptive use is at most a minor contributor to BCIS risk.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	The value of sentinel lymph node biopsy in DCIS(M) of the breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Genetic variation in TP53 and risk of breast cancer in a population-based case-control study	Whereas germ line missense mutations in the tumor suppressor gene TP53 are associated with a marked predisposition to breast cancer, single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) may play a more modest role in breast cancer susceptibility. We examined genetic variation in TP53 in relation to breast cancer risk among women aged 20-74 years in a population-based case-control study in Wisconsin, Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Analyses were conducted separately for in situ (176 cases/581 controls) and invasive (1490 cases/1291 controls) breast cancer. Oral mucosal DNA samples were genotyped for the codon 72 polymorphism in exon 4 (rs1042522), seven intronic SNPs and three SNPs residing in the 3' untranslated region (UTR). Logistic regression was used to obtain age- and state-adjusted odds ratios for individual SNPs. Haplotypes were reconstructed using PHASE software, and the overall association with breast cancer risk was assessed using a global score test. None of the 11 individual SNPs or eight common haplotypes were significantly related to breast carcinoma in situ risk. Among all women, two linked SNPs (D' = 0.99, r(2) = 0.95) on intron 7 (rs12951053, rs12947788) were associated with modest increases in invasive breast cancer risk; however, associations were only significant for heterozygous carriers. The data suggested that additional variants in the 3' UTR (rs9894946), and in two correlated SNPs (D' = 0.94, r(2) = 0.81) in introns 6 (rs1625895) and 4 (rs2909430), were associated with reduced invasive breast cancer risk among women aged 50 and younger only (P-interaction < 0.03). These results indicate that common variation in the TP53 gene could modify the risk of invasive breast cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Presence of VIP system at the nuclear cell membrane in ductal breast carcinoma in situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of the male breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Risk factors for breast carcinoma in situ versus invasive breast cancer in a prospective study of pre- and post-menopausal women	Risk factors for breast carcinoma in situ and invasive breast cancer were compared using data from 61,844 women (61% post-menopausal) with no prior breast cancer and at least one screening mammogram between April 1, 1996 and June 30, 2001. The women were followed until a subsequent mammogram before July 1, 2001, or a benign biopsy or breast cancer diagnosis before June 30, 2002. A total of 1,191 breast cancers (300 in situ and 891 invasive) were diagnosed during an average follow-up of 3.1 years. Multivariate Cox regression models were used to estimate the relative risks (RR) of in situ and invasive cancer associated with family history of breast cancer, age at first childbirth or nulliparity, post-menopausal hormone use, body mass index (BMI), and mammographic breast density. Separate analyses were done for pre- and post-menopausal women. BMI was unrelated to risk of in situ cancer regardless of menopausal status, but was associated with an increased risk of invasive cancer in post-menopausal women (RR = 1.9 for BMI >= 30 vs. BMI < 22, 95% confidence interval 1.4-2.5). Later childbearing and nulliparity were more strongly associated with in situ than invasive cancer in pre-menopausal women. Post-menopausal hormone use was more strongly associated with invasive disease. RR associated with family history and breast density were similar for in situ cancer and invasive cancer. Results indicating that BMI is related to post-menopausal invasive cancers but unrelated to in situ cancers are consistent with the hypothesis that concomitants of obesity activate proliferation.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer and the "materiality of risk": The rise of morphological prediction	This paper follows the history of "morphological risk" of breast cancer. In the early twentieth century, surgeons and pathologists arrived at the conclusion that specific anatomical and cytological changes in the breast are related to a heightened risk of developing a malignancy in the future. This conclusion was directly related to a shift from macroscopic to microscopic diagnosis of malignancics, and to the integration of the frozen section into routine surgery for breast cancer. In the interwar era, conditions such as "chronic mastitis" and "cystic disease of the breast" were defined as precancerous, and women diagnosed with these conditions were advised to undergo mastectomy. In the post-World War II era, these entities were replaced by "carcinoma in situ." The recent development of tests for hereditary predisposition to breast cancer is a continuation of attempts to detect an "embodied risk" of cancer and to eliminate this risk by cutting it out.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Lifetime recreational and occupational physical activity and risk of in situ and invasive breast cancer	Numerous studies have observed reduced breast cancer risk with increasing levels of physical activity, yet these findings have been inconsistent about optimal times of activity and effect modification by other factors. We investigated the association between recreational and occupational physical activity and breast cancer risk in a population-based case-control study in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Wisconsin. During structured telephone interviews, 7,630 controls, 1,689 in situ, and 6,391 invasive breast cancer cases, ages 20 to 69 years, reported lifetime history of recreational physical activity and occupation. Neither lifetime recreational nor strenuous occupational physical activity appeared to be associated with risk of breast carcinoma in situ. In contrast, recreational physical activity was associated with a reduced risk of invasive breast cancer. After adjustment for potentially confounding factors, women averaging > 6 h per week of strenuous recreational activity over their lifetime had a 23% reduction in the odds ratio of invasive breast cancer when compared with women reporting no recreational activity (95% confidence interval, 0.65-0.92; P-trend = 0.05). However, this reduction in risk was limited to women without a first-degree family history of breast cancer (P-interaction = 0.02). Inverse associations were observed for physical activity early in life, in the postmenopausal years, and in the recent past, but these findings were confined to women without a family history of breast cancer. Lifetime strenuous occupational activity was not associated with invasive breast cancer risk. These results provide further evidence that, for most women, physical activity may reduce the risk of invasive breast cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Molecular classification of breast carcinoma in situ	Pleomorphic variant of invasive lobular carcinoma (PILC) is an aggressive variant of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC). Its in situ counterpart, pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ (PLCIS) is a recently described entity. Morphologically it has the typical architectural pattern of LCIS, but the neoplastic cells resemble intermediate grade DCIS. Molecular signatures that distinguish. PLCIS from DCIS and LCIS would provide additional tools to aid in the histopathologic classification of PLCIS as a lesion distinct from LCIS and DCIS. CIS lesions, obtained from a study cohort of 38 breast cancer patients, were divided into 18 DCIS, 14 PLCIS and 6 LCIS. DNA from microdissected archival tissue was interrogated for loss or gain of 112 breast-cancer-specific genes using the Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification Assay (MLPA). Classification Regression Tree (CART) analysis was employed to develop a gene-based molecular classification to distinguish or separate out PLCIS from DCIS and LCIS. Molecular classification via CART, based on gene copy number, agreed with histopathology in 34/38 CIS cases. Loss of CASP1 was predictive of LCIS (n=4) with one misclassified PLCIS. Gain of RELA predicted only the LCIS classification (n=2 cases). STK15 and TNFRSF1B were predictive only for DCIS with no misclassifications. Gain of EHF and TNFRSF1B and loss of NCOA3 were predictive of PLCIS, but not without misclassification. Molecular reclassification by CART was accomplished in 4 CIS cases: I PLCIS was reclassified as LCIS, I LCIS reclassified as PLCIS, and 2 DCIS cases as PLCIS. This study provides additional rationale for molecular modeling strategies in the evaluation of CIS lesions. This diagnostic aid may serve to minimize misclassification between PLCIS and DCIS, and PLCIS and LCIS, aiding to increase accuracy in the differential diagnosis of CIS lesions.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Oral contraceptive use and risk of breast carcinoma in situ (United States)	Objective Our study assesses the impact of oral contraceptive use on breast carcinoma in-situ (BCIS) risk.Methods We conducted a population based case-control study of incident BCIS among black and white women ages 35-64 years residing in Los Angeles County. Case patients (n = 567) were newly diagnosed with BCIS and control participants (n = 614) were identified by random digit dialing between 1 March 1995 and 31 May 1998. All subjects were required to have had a mammogram in the 2 years before case diagnosis or control recruitment. Data were collected during in-person interviews. Multivariable logistic regression analyses provide estimates of odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs).Results Oral contraceptive use was not associated with risk of BCIS (OR = 1.04, 95% CI (0.76-1.42)). Risk did not increase with longer periods of use. No associations with BCIS risk were observed for oral contraceptive use before first term pregnancy, age at first oral contraceptive use, or for time since last use. Risk was not modified by estrogen dose, age, race, or parity.Conclusions Our results are consistent with recent results on invasive breast cancer reported for the Women's Contraceptive and Reproductive Experiences Study and show no association between oral contraceptive use and risk of BCIS.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	hTERT expression in human brest cancer and non-cancerous tissue: the diagnodtic effcacy and correlation with c-Myc expression	Purpose To quantitatively measure the expression of hTERT mRNA inhuman brest tissue - explore the diagnostic effcacy and to examine the relationship between c-Myc and hTERT expression. Methods The expression of hTERT mRNA was examined by real-time RT-PCR respectively in normal breast tissue nearby cancer, simple hyperplasia, atypical hyperplasia, ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive ductal carcinoma. The expression of c-Myc mRNA in breast cance was also examined by real-time RT-PCR. Results (1) The positive rate of hTERT mRNA expression in carcinoma was 92. 11% (35/38), and the N-hTERT of them was high than the cutoff (N-hTERT = 10). The N-hTERT of all the benign lesions was below the cutoff. (Z The positive correlation between hTERT mRNA and c-Myc mRNA was found in breast carcinoma (gamma = 0.7395 P < 0.01). Conclusions hTERT mRNA expression is significantly higher in human breast carcinoma in situ than in atypical hyperplasia. Quantitative detection of hTERT mRNA expression by real-time RT-PCR is helpful in differentiated diagnosis of these two lesions. Activation of c-Myc may play a role in the transcriptive activation of hTERT gene in breast carcinoma.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Role of radiotherapy for the treatment of breast in situ carcinoma	As a result of mammographic screening programs, the incidence of diagnosed non-invasive breast carcinomas has increased markedly. Nevertheless, the elective treatment for these kind of tumours has not yet been established, leading to controversies to decide about which is the best therapeutic option, whether mastectomy or conserving therapy. We make a review of the literature, and discuss the different treatment options for breast carcinoma in situ, especially the role of radiation therapy.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Expression and prognostic impact of the protein tyrosine phosphatases PRL-1, PRL-2, and PRL-3 in breast cancer	The aim of this study was to investigate the expression of the protein tyrosine phosphatases (PTP) PRL-1, PRL-2, and PRL-3 in human breast cancer and to evaluate its clinical and prognostic significance. PRL-PTP mRNA expression was examined in malignant (n = 7) and nonmalignant (n = 7) cryoconserved breast tissue samples as well as in eight breast cancer cell lines by RT-PCR. Furthermore, protein expression of PRL-3 was analysed semiquantitatively by immunohistochemistry in ductal breast carcinoma in situ (n = 135) and invasive breast cancer (n = 147) by use of tissue microarray technology (TMA). In 24 lymph node-positive patients we selected the corresponding lymph node metastases for analysis of PRL-3 expression, and a validation set (n = 99) of invasive breast cancer samples was examined. Staining results were correlated with clinicopathological parameters and long-term follow-up. PRL-3 mRNA expression was significantly higher in malignant compared to benign breast tissue. For PRL-1 and PRL-2 expression no significant differences were observed. Staining of TMAs showed PRL-3 expression in 85.9% ductal carcinoma in situ and 75.5% invasive breast carcinomas. Analysis of survival parameters revealed a shorter disease-free survival (DFS) in patients with PRL-3-positive carcinomas, and in particular a significantly shorter DFS in nodal-positive patients with PRL-3 overexpressing tumours as compared to PRL3-negative breast carcinomas (66 +/- 77 months (95% CI, 52-80) vs 97 +/- 79 months (95% CI, 79-115); P = 0.032). Moreover, we found a more frequent expression of PRL-3 in lymph node metastases as compared to the primary tumours (91.7 vs 66.7%; P = 0.033). Our results suggest that PRL-3 might serve as a novel prognostic factor in breast cancer, which may help to predict an adverse disease outcome.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Increased risk of second malignancies after in situ breast carcinoma in a population-based registry	Among 1276 primary breast carcinoma in situ ( BCIS) patients diagnosed in 1972-2002 in the Southern Netherlands, 11% developed a second cancer. Breast carcinoma in situ patients exhibited a two-fold increased risk of second cancer (standardised incidence ratios (SIR): 2.1, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.7-2.5). The risk was highest for a second breast cancer (SIR: 3.4, 95% CI: 2.6-4.3; AER: 66 patients per 10 000 per year) followed by skin cancer (SIR: 1.7, 95% CI: 1.1-2.6; AER: 17 patients per 10 000 per year). The increased risk of second breast cancer was similar for the ipsilateral (SIR: 1.9, 95% CI: 1.3-2.7) and contralateral (SIR: 2.0, 95% CI: 1.4-2.8) breast. Risk of second cancer was independent of age at diagnosis, type of initial therapy, histologic type of BCIS and period of diagnosis. Standardised incidence ratios of second cancer after BCIS (SIR: 2.3, 95% CI: 1.8-2.8) resembled that after invasive breast cancer (SIR: 2.2, 95% CI: 2.1-2.4). Surveillance should be directed towards second (ipsi- and contra-lateral) breast cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Risk of in situ breast cancer and mammographic density: The Multiethnic Cohort.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Weight gain and risk of carcinoma in situ of the breast.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Effects of letrozole and anastrozole on ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS): results from a randomised trial		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Sentinel node biopsy in patients with DCIS - when is it justified?		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Trends in incidence and variation in treatment of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in the Southeast Netherlands (1984-2003)		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Predictive modelling in DCIS in 380 patients using artificial intelligence technology.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Is HER2/neu a predictor for invasive recurrence in DCIS.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	A newly proposed semi-automated method of grading ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Hypoxia-induced dedifferentiation of tumor cells - A mechanism behind heterogeneity and aggressiveness of solid tumors	Histopathological examination of solid tumors frequently reveals pronounced tumor cell heterogeneity with regards to cell organization, cell morphology, cell size, nuclei morphology, etc. Analyses of gene expression patterns by immunohistochemistry or in situ hybridization techniques further strengthen the actual presence of phenotypic heterogeneity, often demonstrating substantial diversity within a given tumor. The molecular mechanisms underlying the phenotypic heterogeneity are very complex with genetic, epigenetic and environmental components. Hypoxia, shortage in oxygen, greatly influences cellular phenotypes by altering the expression of specific genes, and is an important contributor to intra- and inter-tumor cell diversity as revealed by the pronounced but non-uniform expression of hypoxia driven genes in solid tumors (reviewed in [Semenza GL. Targeting HIF-1 for cancer therapy. Nat Rev Cancer 2003;3:721-32; Harris AL. Hypoxia - a key regulatory factor in tumour growth. Nat Rev Cancer 2002;2:38-47.]). The oxygen pressure in solid tumors is generally lower than in the surrounding non-malignant tissues, and tumors exhibiting extensive hypoxia have been shown to be more aggressive than corresponding tumors that are better oxygenized [Vaupel P. Oxygen transport in tumors: characteristics and clinical implications. Adv Exp Med Biol 1996;388:341-51; Vaupel P, Thews 0, Hoeckel M. Treatment resistance of solid tumors: role of hypoxia and anemia. Med Oncol 2001; 18:243-59.]. We recently observed that hypoxic neuroblastoma cells and breast cancer cells loose their differentiated gene expression patterns and develop stem cell-like phenotypes [Jogi A, Ora I, Nilsson H, Lindeheim A, Makino Y, Poellinger L, et a]. Hypoxia alters gene expression in human neuroblastoma cells toward an immature and neural crest-like phenotype. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2002;99:7021-6; Helczynska K, Kronblad A, Jogi A, Nilsson E, Beckman S, Landberg G, et al. Hypoxia promotes a dedifferentiated phenotype in ductal breast carcinoma in situ. Cancer Res 2003;63:1441-4.]. As low stage of differentiation in neuroblastoma and in breast cancer is linked to poor prognosis, hypoxia-induced dedifferentiation will not only contribute to tumor heterogeneity but could also be one mechanism behind increased aggressiveness of hypoxic tumors. The effect(s) of hypoxia on tumor cell differentiation status is the focus of this review. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Expression patterns of angiogenic and lymphangiogenic factors in ductal breast carcinoma in situ	The objective of this study was to investigate expression of various growth factors associated with angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis and of their receptors in ductal carcinomas in situ of the breast ( DCIS). We studied protein expression of basic fibroblast growth factor ( bFGF), vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF)-A, endothelin ( ET)-1, and VEGF-C, and their receptors bFGF-R1, Flt-1, KDR, ETAR, ETBR, and Flt-4 immunohistochemically in 200 DCIS ( pure DCIS: n = 96; DCIS adjacent to an invasive component: n = 104) using self-constructed tissue microarrays. Basic fibroblast growth factor-R1, VEGF-C, Flt-4, and ETAR were expressed in the tumour cells in the majority of cases, whereas bFGF and Flt-1 expression was rarely observed. VEGF-A, KDR, ET-1, and ETBR were variably expressed. The findings of VEGF-C and its receptor Flt-4 as lymphangiogenic factors being expressed in tumour cells of nearly all DCIS lesions and the observed expression of various angiogenic growth factors in most DCIS suggest that in situ carcinomas are capable of inducing angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis. Moreover, we found a higher angiogenic activity in pure DCIS as compared to DCIS with concomitant invasive carcinoma. This association of angiogenic factors with pure DCIS was considerably more pronounced in the subgroup of non-high-grade DCIS ( n = 103) as compared with high-grade DCIS ( n = 94). Determination of these angiogenic markers may therefore facilitate discrimination between biologically different subgroups of DCIS and could help to identify a particularly angiogenic subset with a potentially higher probability of recurrence or of progression to invasiveness. For these DCIS, targeting angiogenesis may represent a feasible therapeutic approach for prevention of progression of DCIS to invasion.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Overexpression of CARM1 in human breast carcinoma stimulated breast cancer cell proliferation.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Postmenopausal levels of sex hormones and risk of breast carcinoma in situ: Results of a prospective study	We report on a prospective study to assess the association of postmenopausal serum levels of sex hormones with subsequent risk of breast carcinoma in situ. We conducted a case-control study nested within the cohort of the New York University Women's Health Study, a large prospective study documenting a positive association of circulating levels of estrogens and androgens with invasive breast cancer. The study included 69 cases of incident in situ carcinoma and 134 individually matched controls. No statistically significant trend of increasing risk with increasing level of any of the hormones was observed. Odds ratios (95% CIs) for the highest tertile relative to the lowest were 1.10 (0.51-2.39) for estradiol, 0.95 (0.41-2.19) for estrone, 1.63 (0.69-3.88) for testosterone, 0.99 (0.44-2.24) for androstenedione, 0.99 (0.45-2.20) for dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and 0.81 (0.38-1.74) for sex hormone-binding globulin. Adjusting for potential confounders did not materially affect the results, nor did limiting the analysis to the 59 cases of ductal carcinoma in situ, the lesion thought to be the direct precursor of most invasive breast cancers. Our results are at variance with the positive associations observed in this same cohort with risk of invasive breast cancer. Possible explanations for our results include lack of power, an effect of sex hormones limited to the progression from in situ to invasive tumors, over-representation of indolent tumors or an effect of sex hormones on the induction of only a subset of in situ tumors, those that would develop into invasive tumors. Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Prevalence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in women diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ	Context The distribution of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in women diagnosed with noninvasive breast carcinoma is unknown. Objective To estimate the BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation prevalence in women with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), unselected for age, family history, or ethnicity. Design, Setting, and Participants The data were 369 DCIS cases diagnosed among female residents aged 20 to 79 years from the state of Connecticut between September 15,1994, and March 14, 1998. These women were participants in a large population-based case-control study of breast carcinoma in situ. Telephone interviews were used to collect risk factor information and blood or buccal specimens were collected for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation testing. Main Outcome Measures Prevalence of disease-associated mutations of BRCA1 and BRCA2 in women diagnosed with DCIS. Results Three (0.8%) and 9 (2.4%) of 369 DCIS cases had disease-associated mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2, respectively. One woman had a mutation in both genes (BRCA1 W321X and BRCA2 3398del5). Carriers were significantly more likely than noncarriers to report a first-degree (mother, sister, or daughter) family history of breast cancer (odds ratio (OR), 3.7; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.1 -12.4), as well as a personal history of ovarian cancer. In addition, carriers were more likely than noncarriers to be diagnosed at an early age (50 years) (OR, 3.4; 95% Cl, 1.0-11.7), as well as to report at least 1 first-degree relative diagnosed with breast cancer before 50 years (OR, 10.6; 95% Cl, 3.0-37.0). Conclusions Ductal carcinoma in situ is a part of the breast/ovarian cancer syndromes defined by BRCA1 and BRCA2, with mutation rates similar to those found for invasive breast cancer. These findings suggest that patients with breast cancer with an appropriate personal or family history of breast and/or ovarian cancer should be screened and followed according to high-risk protocols, regardless of whether they are diagnosed with in situ or invasive breast cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Expression of P-cadherin, but not E-cadherin or N-cadherin, relates to pathological and functional differentiation of breast carcinomas		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Activation of nuclear factor (NF)-kB is linked to resistance to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer patients.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Distinct incidence patterns among in situ and invasive breast carcinomas, with possible etiologic implications	Background. Incidence patterns are well-established for invasive breast carcinoma (InvBC) overall and for InvBC defined by estrogen receptor (ER) expression, but are not as well-defined for breast carcinoma in situ (CIS). Methods. We, therefore, examined and compared the incidence patterns for CIS and InvBC in the SEER program to define these patterns and to generate etiologic hypotheses. Data were stratified by age 50 and gtoreq50 years to approximate menopause. Results. During the years 1973-2000, annual age-adjusted incidence rates rose 660% for CIS and 36% for InvBC, with the most rapid increases occurring in women age gtoreq50 years. Age-specific incidence rate curves for CIS increased until age 50 years, and then flattened, irrespective of ER expression. On the other hand, rates for InvBC overall and for InvBC defined by ER-positive expression increased continuously with aging, whereas rates for InvBC defined by ER-negative expression flattened after 50 years. Age frequency distribution for CIS and for ER-negative InvBC demonstrated bimodal populations, with a predominant early onset peak incidence at age 50 years. Age frequency distribution for ER-positive InvBC showed bimodal populations with a predominant late-onset mode at age 71 years. Conclusion. Over the last three decades, age-adjusted incidence trends differed for CIS and InvBC in the United States, possibly due to screening mammography and/or etiologic diversity. Indeed, age-specific incidence patterns suggested that carcinogenic events operating early in reproductive life had greater impact upon CIS and InvBC defined by ER-negative expression than upon InvBC overall and InvBC defined by ER-positive expression.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Anastrozole and low dose tamoxifen in patients with breast carcinoma in situ: a pharmacokinetics and biomarker study.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical analysis of 14-3-3 sigma and related proteins in hyperplastic and neoplastic breast lesions, with particular reference to early carcinogenesis	In order to confirm the role of 14-3-3 sigma (sigma) as a tumor suppressor in breast carcinogenesis, we have studied the expression of 14-3-3sigma immunohistochemically in usual ductal hyperplasia (UDH), ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) breast lesions. Immunostaining for estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha), p53 and estrogen-responsive RING finger protein (Efp) was also carried out. Immunohistochemically, expression of 14-3-3sigma was seen in 92% UDH lesions and gradually decreased from 65% in DCIS to 23% in IDC. The expression of ERalpha decreased gradually from UDH to DCIS to IDC, while p53 showed an inverse staining pattern to that of ERalpha. The expression of Efp showed no significant difference among the three breast lesions. Hence, the present immunohistochemical study confirmed 14-3-3sigma as a tumor suppressor in breast carcinogenesis. A similar immunohistochemical analysis was then carried out on columnar cell hyperplasia with atypia (CCHA), in which the expression pattern of tumor suppressor 14-3-3sigma, ERalpha and p53 suggested that it might be possible that CCHA is a precancerous lesion.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Risk factors for breast carcinoma in situ vs. invasive breast cancer in a prospective study of pre- and postmenopausal women, 1996-2002		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Impact of reproductive factors and lactation on breast carcinoma in situ risk	Incidence rates for breast carcinoma in situ (CIS) have increased markedly over the past 20 years. Breast CIS, detected primarily on mammography, now represents 30-45% of all screened detected breast cancers. We conducted a large population-based case-control study to evaluate the impact of reproductive factors and lactation on breast CIS risk. Case subjects were newly diagnosed with breast CIS at ages 35-64 years between March 1, 1995 and May 31, 1998 (n = 567), resided in Los Angeles County and were born in the United States. Control subjects (n = 6 14), identified through random digit dialing, fulfilled the same eligibility criteria and were required to have had at least one screening mammogram in the 2-year period before their interview. Women with a positive family history of breast cancer had a 2-fold increase in breast CIS risk. Parous women were at reduced risk relative to nulligravid women (odds ratio (OR) = 0.67, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.46-1.00). Among nulliparous women, pregnancy was unrelated to breast CIS risk. Among parous women, risk declined with each additional term pregnancy (p-trend = 0.003). No associations were found with age at first term pregnancy, induced abortion or miscarriage. Long duration of breast-feeding ( gtoreq24 months) was associated with increased risk (OR = 2.00, 95% CI = 1.11-3.60). The observed effects of family history and pregnancy on breast CIS risk are consistent with those observed for invasive breast cancer. The results for breast-feeding are contrary to what has been observed in studies of invasive breast cancer. Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Bcl-2 protein in normal, hyperplastic and neoplastic breast tissues. A metabolite of the putative stem-cell subpopulation of the mammary gland	This investigation, though initially designed to examine the possible influence of the Bcl-2 protein on the node-metastasizing capacity of breast carcinomas, was amplified to study the expression of this antiapoptotic protein in normal breast lobules and hyperplastic lesions. We examined paraffin sections of 508 breast carcinomas, stained for Bcl-2, estrogen (ER) and progesterone receptors (PgR) and epithelial membrane antigen, and occasionally for other antigens as well. Only a few cells showing a strong Bcl-2 positivity spotted the tubulo-lobular units of normal resting glands, whereas such cells were relatively numerous in atrophic lobules, and very scarce in the terminally differentiated lactating breast. Columnar and usual types of hyperplasia were exclusively, or almost exclusively, composed of Bcl-2(+), ER(+) and PgR(+) cells. The foci of carcinoma in situ and those of invasive carcinomas were respectively 83% and 66% positive for Bcl-2 in at least 25% of their cells. Even among the invasive carcinomas, Bcl-2(+) cases included 83% and 87% of the ER(+) and PgR(+) cases, respectively (p=0.0001). Though there was a statistically significant inverse relation between Bcl-2 and tumor grade (p=0.0001), no significant association was found between Bcl-2 and lymph node stage. In conclusion, we suggest that normal, hyperplastic and neoplastic breast epithelial cells expressing the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 are immature cells that ought to form part of the stem-cell subpopulation, which is committed to the development and to the maintenance of the normal gland and which gives rise to hyperplastic and neoplastic disorders when its proliferation is deregulated. In ductal proliferative changes Bcl-2 assays may be useful for diagnostic but not for prognostic purposes.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Frequency of benign and preinvasive breast diseases	Objectives: The importance of benign proliferative and non-invasive breast lesions as a risk factor preceding the development of invasive mammary carcinoma is well established in the literature. The objective of this study is to estimate the magnitude of benign proliferative diseases as well as mammary intra-epithelial neoplasia in the Western region of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), in order to encourage nationwide breast cancer screening programs for early detection of the high risk proliferative and pre-invasive breast lesions. Methods: We reviewed histopathology records (reports and slides of selected cases) of 2129 breast cases including mastectomies and breast biopsies from January 1985 to December 2002 in King Abdul-Aziz University Hospital and King Khalid National Guard Hospital, Jeddah. KSA. All he cases and diagnosis are listed and reclassified using systematized nomenclature of medicine (SNOMED) coding system and then regrouped based oil the associated risk factors of developing breast carcinoma. Results: Two thousand one hundred and twenty-nine reports were reviewed and 2343 diagnosis were identified as some cases had more than one diagnosis. The total of benign diagnosis were 1504 after exclusion of malignant diagnosis (558), normal breast tissue, gynecomastia, and non-mammary tissue (281). All diagnosis (1504) were reclassified based on anatomical prognostic indicators into non-proliferative (1283/1504), proliferative (140/1504), atypical hyperplasia (AH) (8/1504), and carcinoma ill Situ (CIS) (73/1504). We compare our findings with the literature and we found that the percentage of benign non-proliferative diagnosis was 85.3% that is higher than the literature 69.7%. Proliferative diseases were 9.3% and atypical hyperplasia was 0.5%, which was lower than the literature 26.2% and 3.6%. Oil the other hand, CIS diagnosis was 4.9%, which is Much higher than the reported literature 1.7%. The Study findings could be explained on the basis of higher prevalence of benign breast lesions in Our population, or it is related to the number of cases studied, or to the diagnostic criteria followed initially. Conclusion: These findings should encourage LIS to refine our diagnostic criteria of proliferative diseases, AH and CIS (mammary intraepithelial neoplasia (MIN)). In addition, we strongly encourage a breast cancer screening program, nationwide.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Community trends in the early detection of breast cancer in Wisconsin, 1980-1998.	Background: Early detection of breast cancer is an important public health goal. Rates of early detection have increased over the past several decades, contributing to recent declines in mortality. Despite these overall trends, however, some populations have experienced less progress than others. Methods: The rates of early detection, measured as the percentage of breast cancers diagnosed as breast carcinoma in situ, were calculated using data from Wisconsin's population-based tumor registry from 1980 to 1998. Trends in breast cancer (percent diagnosed in situ) were examined over time by socioeconomic characteristics of ZIP code of residence, using census data. Results: The percentage of breast cancer cases that were breast carcinoma in situ was more than five times greater in the later period (1994-1998) (13.9%), compared with the early period (1980-1984) (2.6%). In the middle period (1987-1991), breast cancer was diagnosed as breast carcinoma in situ about one-third less frequently among women in areas with the lowest urbanization, median family income, and percent educated beyond high school, compared with communities with the highest levels of these variables. Recently disparities in early detection rates by community income and education indicators declined slightly, whereas disparities in percent of breast carcinoma in situ by urbanization did not. Conclusions: Communities with lower levels of income, education, and urbanization lagged in the early detection of breast cancer during the 1980s and, despite some progress during the 1990s, continue to be underserved. Women in these communities should be targeted for interventions to improve the early detection of breast cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Surrogate markers of angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis in ductal breast carcinoma in situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Carcinoma in situ and early breast carcinoma - Survey of the Portuguese Senology Society on treatment in Portugal and its evolution between 1985 and 2000	By means of a questionnaire sent to Portuguese hospitals which diagnose and treat most female patients with breast cancer, it was intended to assess the situation regarding the treatment of carcinoma in situ and early breast cancer (T1 or T2, N0 or N1), as well as their evolution between 1985 and 2000. The hospital participation rate was 65% and a sample of 865 patients was collected, distributed by the years 1985, 1990, 1995 and 2000. It was observed that, in terms of surgery, there was an increase in conservative surgery, which was over 40% in 2000, as well as an increase in the average of excised axillary lymph nodes. Progress in the surgical approach was similar both in cancer centres and in large and university hospitals, when compared with the other surveyed hospitals. Also, no differences between these two hospital groups in disease-free survival and overall survival were found. Postoperative radiotherapy was employed in more than 90% of the patients submitted to conservative surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy was used in 39% of all the patients, while tamoxifen as adjuvant treatment was used in 58% of the patients.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	The risk of a contralateral breast cancer among women diagnosed with ductal and lobular breast carcinoma in situ: Data from the Connecticut Tumor Registry.	Background: Women diagnosed with breast carcinoma in situ are at increased risk for developing a contralateral breast cancer. The magnitude of this risk and the relationship between this risk and age, time since diagnosis, histologic subtype, and treatment for the first breast cancer is continuing to be defined. Methods: The risk of developing a contralateral breast cancer is examined among 4198 women diagnosed with breast carcinoma in situ and reported to the Connecticut Tumor Registry (CTR) between January 1, 1975 and March 14, 1998 using Kaplan-Meier estimation. A Cox proportional hazards model is used to assess the effect of surgical treatment, radiation therapy, age at diagnosis, race, histology, marital status, anatomic location within the breast, and time since diagnosis upon this risk. Results: The cumulative 5- and 10-year probabilities of being diagnosed with a contralateral breast cancer among women initially diagnosed with a ductal breast carcinoma in situ (DCIS) were 4.3% (95% confidence interval, 3.6-5.0%) and 6.8% (95% confidence interval, 5.5-8.2%), respectively. These risks are 3.35 times greater than those for women without a history of breast cancer but are similar to those for women diagnosed with non-metastatic invasive ductal carcinomas of the breast. The cumulative 5- and 10-year probabilities of being diagnosed with a contralateral breast cancer among women initially diagnosed with a lobular breast carcinoma in situ (LCIS) were 11.9% (95% confidence interval, 9.5-14.3%) and 13.9% (95% confidence interval, 11.0-16.8%), respectively. Conclusions: Women diagnosed with LCIS were 2.6 (95% confidence interval, 2.0-3.4%) times more likely than women with DCIS to be diagnosed with a contralateral breast cancer within the first six months of the first breast primary. The risk of developing a contralateral breast cancer more than 6 months after the initial breast cancer was independent of surgical or radiation therapy, time since diagnosis, age at diagnosis, histology, race, marital status, or anatomic location of the cancer within the breast.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Lifetime recreational exercise activity and risk of breast carcinoma in situ.	BACKGROUND: The incidence rates of breast carcinoma in situ (BCIS) have increased dramatically over the past two decades, primarily because of increased mammography screening. Ductal carcinoma in situ, which accounts for approximately 85% of BCIS and 10-20% of all breast carcinomas, is generally recognized as the final step in the progression to invasive disease. To the authors' knowledge, few studies have been conducted to date to evaluate BCIS risk factors. Because of its potential effects on circulating sex hormones, physical activity has been proposed as a modifiable risk factor for invasive breast carcinoma. However, the relation to BCIS risk is poorly understood. METHODS: The authors analyzed data from a population-based case control study conducted in Los Angeles County. Personal interviews were conducted with 567 white and black women (age range, 35-64 years) who had been newly diagnosed with BCIS between march 1, 1995 and May 31, 1998 and with 1026 control subjects, of whom 616 were screened within 2 years of identification. RESULTS: After excluding unscreened control subjects (n=410) and adjusting for potential confounding factors, the risk of BCIS was approximately 35% lower among women with any exercise activity compared with inactive women, although no significant trend was observed. The association between exercise activity and the risk of BCIS was modified by a family history of breast carcinoma. No reduction in risk was observed among women reporting a first-degree family history of breast carcinoma (homogeneity of trends P value=0.02). CONCLUSIONS: The findings of the current study suggest that exercise activity may modify the risk of BCIS, particularly among women without a family history of breast carcinoma.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Heterogeneous versus homogeneous genetic nature of multiple foci of in situ carcinoma of the breast.	The vast majority of in situ breast cancers represent focal lesions all derived from a single clone and requiring local treatment alone. We focused our attention on rare cases of multicentric in situ carcinomas affecting different quadrants, which required mastectomy. Defining the origin from single- or multiple-cell clones of separate independent neoplastic foci in the breast may be of pathogenetic interest and of importance in deciding the type of therapy to be administered. We employed a molecular assay based on loss of heterozygosity (LOH) and human androgen receptor assay (HUMARA) analysis of microdissected samples from 19 mastectomies. Two or more tissue samples were obtained from 7 patients with multicentric lobular in situ carcinoma (LCIS), either classical or large-cell variety; and 12 patients with multicentric ductal in situ carcinomas (DCIS), either low-grade (7 cases) or high-grade (5 cases) variety. Separate foci of high-grade (comedonic) DCIS were found to be monoclonal in nature. On the contrary, definite evidence favoring the origin from different cell clones of separate carcinomatous foci within the same breast was obtained in 2 cases of low-grade DCIS and in 6 cases of LCIS. A genetic imbalance might be the factor favoring the development of multifocal heterogeneous foci of in situ breast cancer. Such a small subgroup of in situ cancers affecting diffusely the entire breast and originating from independent foci presents both clinical and pathogenetic interest.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Intraepithelial neoplasia: Target for prevention.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Oral contraceptives and the risk of ductal breast carcinoma in situ.	Recent evidence suggests that oral contraceptive use is associated with little to no increased risk of invasive breast carcinoma. No study has examined the relationship between oral contraceptive use and the risk of non-invasive breast carcinoma, that is, breast carcinoma in situ. Objective. To define the role of oral contraceptive use in the development of breast carcinoma in situ. Methods. The data are 875 ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) cases diagnosed among residents of the state of Connecticut from September 15, 1994 to March 14, 1998 and between the age of 20 and 79 years as well as 999 control subjects. Controls are female Connecticut residents collected via random-digit-dial and frequency matched to the cases by 5-year age intervals. Telephone interviews were used to collect information on risk factors and cancer screening history. Logistic regression was used to provide maximum likelihood estimates of the odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). Results. The risk of being diagnosed with DCIS for women who had ever used oral contraceptives was not increased relative to women who had never used them (OR: 1.0, 95% CI: 0.8, 1.2). The risk did not significantly increase with duration of oral contraceptive use, nor with duration of high estrogen use, time since last use, progestin or estrogen type, or age at first use. Furthermore, the association between oral contraceptive use and DCIS risk did not vary by the presence of a family history of breast cancer or by menopausal status. Conclusions. In these data, no evidence was found for an increased risk of ductal carcinoma in situ associated with the use of oral contraceptives.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	p63 expression in benign and malignant breast lesions.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Detecting breast carcinoma in situ by serum proteomic analysis using ProteinChip(R) arrays and SELDI-mass spectrometry.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Lifetime recreational physical activity and risk of breast carcinoma in situ.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Hypoxia promotes a dedifferentiated phenotype in ductal breast carcinoma in situ.	In cultured neuroblastoma cells, hypoxia induces a dedifferentiated phenotype. We tested whether hypoxia-induced dedifferentiation also occurs in vivo in mammary ductal carcinoma in situ with its well-defined lesions and distinct areas of necrosis. Ductal carcinoma in situ cells surrounding the central necrosis have high hypoxia inducible factor-1alpha protein levels, down-regulated estrogen receptor-alpha, and increased expression of the epithelial breast stem cell marker cytokeratin 19; lose their polarization; and acquire an increased nucleus/cytoplasm ratio, hallmarks of poor architectural and cellular differentiation. The hypoxia-induced changes were confirmed in cultured breast cancer cells. We propose that hypoxia-induced dedifferentiation is a mechanism that promotes tumor progression in breast cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Family history of breast and ovarian cancer and the risk of breast carcinoma in situ.	A family history of breast cancer is an important risk factor for breast carcinoma in situ (BCIS), however, there are no detailed analyses of its variation in effect by number, type, laterality or age at onset of affected relatives nor by association with ovarian cancer. In addition, the role of the breast cancer susceptibility genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, in the development of BCIS is unclear. Objective: To better define the role of: (1) a family history of breast and ovarian cancer and (2) the cancer susceptibility genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, in the development of BCIS. Methods: The data are 875 ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and 123 lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) cases diagnosed among residents of the state of Connecticut from September 15, 1994 to March 14, 1998 and between the age of 20 and 79 years. Controls (n=999) are female Connecticut residents collected via random-digit-dial and frequency matched to the cases by 5-year age intervals. Telephone interviews were used to collect information on risk factors and cancer screening history. Logistic regression was used to provide maximum likelihood estimates of the odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). The probability of being a BRCA1 and/or BRCA2 gene carrier was calculated for each case and control, using family history of breast and ovarian cancer, age/age at diagnosis for relatives, prevalence and penetrance data for BRCA1/BRCA2, and self-report of Jewish heritage. Results: Cases with DCIS or LCIS were significantly more likely to report a first degree family history of breast cancer (OR: 1.6, 95% CI: 1.3, 2.1 and 1.8, 95% CI: 1.2, 2.9, respectively) than were controls. In addition, DCIS cases were 2.4 (95% CI: 0.8, 7.2) times more likely than controls to report both an affected mother and sister. An inverse association was suggested between age at onset and DCIS risk with cases aged 49 years or younger at 2.1 (95% CI: 1.3, 3.4) times the risk of controls (95% CI) versus 1.5 (95% CI: 1.1, 2.0) for cases older than 49 years. An elevated risk of DCIS was associated with a family history of ovarian cancer but did not reach statistical significance (OR: 1.3, 95% CI: 0.7, 2.5). Approximately 3.7% and 1.9% of DCIS cases were predicted to carry a mutation in BRCA1 and BRCA2, respectively. Conclusions: A family history of breast cancer is associated with an increased risk of DCIS and LCIS, particularly among women with multiple relatives affected at early ages. Statistical risk models predict a low prevalence rate of BRCA1 and BRCA2 in DCIS; these estimates await confirmation through laboratory testing.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Regulation of angiogenic factors in DMBA-induced rat mammary pathologies.	Introduction: In the DMBA model of rat mammary carcinogenesis microvascular density increases step-wise with progression from normal to invasive disease, but the regulation of this process is unknown.Material and methods: Three months post-DMBA exposure, rat mammary tissues and tumors were isolated and characterized histologically as normal, intraductal hyperplasia, carcinoma in situ (CIS), or invasive carcinoma (INV). From whole tissue sections we analyzed RNA for VEGF, BFGF, TNF-alpha, MMP9, MMP2, MASPIN, IGF-1, IGF-2, TSP-1 and TIMP-1 by RT-PCR. VEGF expression was further analyzed in the stroma vs. the epithelium using laser capture microdissection and semi-quantitative RT-PCR. Results: The number of positive cases was increased for MMP9, MMP2, and BFGF in CIS and INV, relative to earlier stages of progression. TNF-alpha was decreased at this stage and the other factors were unchanged. VEGF was ubiquitously expressed throughout progression, with a significant (three-fold) increase in mean level of expression in INV in both the epithelium and the stroma.Conclusions: The expression of angiogenic regulators varies, dependent upon stage of progression. Agents to block angiogenesis may function in a stage-specific fashion.These studies were funded by the NCI (R01-CA82996).	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Mammographic density and obesity as risk factors for invasive breast cancer following ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS).		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	High risk lobular lesions diagnosed at vacuum-assisted biopsy: Results at surgical excision.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Accuracy of core needle biopsy diagnosis in assessing papillary breast lesions: Histologic predictors of malignancy.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	E-Cadherin in pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ and indeterminant carcinoma in-situ of breast.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Use of myoepithelial marker p63 in breast pathology.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Hypoxia-induced phenotypical changes in ductal breast carcinoma in situ.		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Correlation of clinical and pathologic features with outcome in patients with ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast treated with breast-conserving surgery and radiotherapy.	Purpose: Although breast-conserving surgery followed by radiotherapy (RT) has become a standard treatment option for patients with ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast, risk factors for ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) in these patients remain an active area of investigation. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of clinical and pathologic features on long-term outcome in a cohort of DCIS patients treated with breast-conserving surgery plus RT. Methods and Materials: Between 1973 and 1998, 230 patients with DCIS were treated with breast-conserving surgery plus RT at our institution. All patients were treated by local excision followed by RT to the breast to a total median tumor bed dose of 64 Gy. Adjuvant hormonal therapy was used in only 20 patients (9%). All available clinical, pathologic, and outcome data, including ipsilateral and contralateral events, were entered into a computerized database. The clinical and pathologic variables evaluated included detection method, mammo- graphic appearance, age, family history, histologic subtype, presence of necrosis, nuclear grade, final margin status, and use of adjuvant hormonal therapy. Results: As of December 15, 2000, with a median follow-up of 8.2 years, 17 patients had developed a recurrence in the ipsilateral breast, resulting in a 5- and 10-year IBTR rate of 5% and 13%, respectively. Contralateral breast cancer developed in 8 patients, resulting in a 10-year contralateral recurrence rate of 5%. Patient age, family history, histologic subtype, margin status, and tumor grade were not significantly associated with recurrence on univariate analysis. A significantly higher rate of local relapse was observed in patients with the presence of necrosis. The 10-year relapse rate was 22% in 88 patients with necrosis compared with 7% in 142 patients without necrosis (p <0.01). In multivariate analysis, the presence of necrosis remained a significant predictor of local relapse. No breast relapses occurred among the 8 patients with positive margins, and three relapses developed among 21 patients with close margins. The rate of IBTR in those with close/positive margins did not differ from the rate in those with negative or unknown margins. It is also notable that none of the 20 patients treated with adjuvant tamoxifen had developed IBTR or a contralateral event to date, although the follow-up on this group was still too short to reach significance. Conclusion: In this cohort of uniformly treated patients with a relatively long follow-up, the presence of necrosis was a significant predictor of local relapse. However, positive or close margin status was not a significant predictor of local relapse. Although none of the patients receiving tamoxifen had a recurrence in the ipsilateral or contralateral breast, longer follow-up is required to assess the effect of tamoxifen on these end points.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Multiple fibroadenomas harbouring carcinoma in situ in a woman with a family history of breast/ovarian cancer	A 46 year old woman with a family history of breast and ovarian cancer presented with multiple fibroadenomas in both breasts. From three fibroadenomas removed from the left breast carcinoma in situ (CIS) had developed. One fibroadenoma gave rise to ductal CIS, whereas the other two harboured lobular CIS. This is the first report of three fibroadenomas simultaneously giving rise to CIS. In addition, synchronous fibroadenomas harbouring different types of CIS from one fibroadenoma to the other have never been described. Direct sequencing revealed a mutation (5075GfwdarwA) in the BRCA1 gene, but retention of BRCA1 immunohistochemical staining and no loss of heterozygosity at the BRCA1 locus by polymerase chain reaction made a pathogenic mutation in BRCA1 unlikely. Furthermore, in this family no cosegregation of breast cancer with this BRCA1 mutation was seen. Indeed, this mutation is now regarded as a polymorphism. This case stresses the need for histological evaluation of all breast masses in women with a strong positive family history for breast and/or ovarian cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	DNA content and cell number determination in microdissected samples of breast carcinoma in situ	Paraffin-embedded tissue (PET) is the specimen of choice for the histopathological diagnosis of cancer. PET has become a valuable resource for correlating cellular phenotype and genotype in microdissected lesions. A definitive improvement in this field has been the development of infrared laser capture microdissection (LCM), which yields homogeneous populations of cells for DNA extraction and in vitro amplification by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). We report here a photographic and fluorescent technique for determining the number of nuclei and concentration of DNA obtained respectively by laser capture microdissection from paraffin-embedded breast cancer tissue. Breast biopsies containing carcinoma in situ were serially sectioned, mounted on plain glass slides and tumor cells were microdissected using a laser capture microscope. The DNA was extracted in digestion buffer and used directly as a template for PCR. In our protocols, each capture contained 21+-5.4 nuclei with a DNA concentration of 115+-5.3 pg. Also, a linear relationship was found between number of captures and DNA content (R2=0.9995). These results represent a novel contribution for a more precise correlation between phenotypic and genotypic diversity in cancer cells studied from microdissected paraffin-embedded tissue.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast: A new phenotype classification system and its relation to prognosis	In a study of invasive breast cancer, multiple correspondence analysis (MCA) revealed clustering of eight pathobiological variables. Two different phenotypes were distinguished by an index calculated on the basis of the variables (histologic grade, necrosis, lymphoid infiltration, number of mitosis and expression of c-erbB-2, p53, progesterone receptor and Bcl-2). Phenotype A lesions share most of the features of normal breast tissue. Phenotype B looks more malignant, has a higher early recurrence rate and is more frequently seen in younger patients. Our aim was to see if ductal breast carcinoma in situ (DCIS) could be divided into the same phenotypes. One hundred and eighty DCIS were investigated. Association between the eight variables was studied in 2X2 models. The phenotype index was calculated by summing weights for the variables in the MCA. All variables were associated, except Bcl-2. DCIS was divided in two phenotypes. Thirty-three tumours were Phenotype A and 147 Phenotype B. The mean age at diagnosis was 65.5 and 58.4 years for Phenotypes A and B, respectively (p=0.0012). No difference regarding local relapse free survival was seen. Two phenotypes were distinguished in DCIS, similar to invasive breast cancer. In an earlier study, 45% of the invasive cancers were classified as Phenotype B. In this study, 82% of DCIS were Phenotype B. This may indicate that invasive breast cancer of Phenotype B is derived from DCIS of Phenotype B. The distribution of DCIS phenotypes with a small proportion of Phenotype A DCIS may be due to that Phenotype A DCIS is less likely to be detected by mammography, or that some invasive breast cancers of Phenotype A progress to invasiveness without passing the in situ phase.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Proceedings of the consensus conference on the role of sentinel lymph node biopsy in carcinoma of the breast, April 19-22, 2001, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	The role of lymphocytes and macrophages in human breast tumorigenesis: An immunohistochemical and morphometric study	The objective of the present study was to analyze the function of lymphoid elements in the tumorigenesis of human breast cancer, similar to their elucidation in human ovarian cancer in our previous work. The lymphocytic and macrophageal content of lymphocytes and macrophages was analyzed immunohistochemically and morphometrically in 49 human breast tumors of different types. The following types of tumors were studied: 1) fibrocystic disease, 2) fibroadenoma, 3) carcinoma in situ, 4) infiltrating ductal and lobular carcinoma with high lymphoid infiltration, and 5) infiltrating ductal and lobular carcinoma with lymphoid depletion. The first two had little lymphoid infiltration and few lymphocytes (mainly T cells), while carcinoma in situ had extensive lymphoid infiltration and increased lymphocytic density, the consequence of a sharp rise in total lymphocytes reflecting the intensified immune response. In ductal and lobular infiltrating carcinoma with high infiltration, T cells were in large excess of B cells (81% and 87% vs. 11%) and CD8+ lymphocytes were the predominant type of T cells (up to 90%), in both tumoral parenchyma and stroma. In infiltrating carcinoma with lymphoid depletion, the total lymphocyte and macrophage count and areas of lymphoid infiltrates decreased, relative to highly infiltrated carcinomas, as signs of deep subcompensation of the lymphoid system. The host's reaction to disease was reflected in high correlations between the densities of the lymphoid cellular elements as tumorigenesis evolved. We suggest that the stromal immunocompetent cells are a reservoir of T killers that eventually cross into the parenchyma and join T helpers and B lymphocytes in the immune antitumor response. In later stages of cancer the response is exhausted, as manifested in lymphoid subcompensation.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Loss of co-ordinate expression of progesterone receptors A and B is an early event in breast carcinogenesis	Progesterone receptor (PR) mediates the effects of progesterone in mammary tissues and plays a crucial role in normal breast development and in breast cancer. PR proteins are expressed as two isoforms, PRA and PRB, that have different capacities to activate target genes, yet it is unknown whether progesterone action in normal and malignant breast is mediated by PRA and/or PRB. This study determines the relative expression of PRA and PRB in normal breast and in benign, premalignant and malignant archival breast lesions by dual immunofluorescent histochemistry. In normal breast and in proliferative disease without atypia (PDWA) PRA and PRB were co-expressed within the same cells in comparable amounts, implicating both isoforms in progesterone action. In atypical lesions, however, there was a significant increase in predominant expression of PRA or PRB, with lesion progression from the normal state to malignancy. PR isoform predominance, especially PRA predominance, was evident in a high proportion of ductal carcinomas in situ (DCIS) and invasive breast lesions. In the normal breast and in PDWA, the relative expression of PRA and PRB in adjacent cells was homogenous. There was a significant increase in cell-to-cell heterogeneity of PR isoform expression in ADH and DCIS lesions and in the majority of breast cancers. Heterogeneous cell-to-cell expression of PR isoforms occurred prior to overall predominant expression of one isoform in premalignant breast lesions, demonstrating that loss of control of relative PRA:PRB expression is an early event in the development of breast cancer. PRA:PRB ratios within a breast lesion are likely to be important as both markers and effectors of tumor growth and development, and progressively aberrant PR isoform expression may play a role in the etiology of breast cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Association between HER2 status and histological diagnosis of breast cancer: Analysis of the multinational HER2000 study		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	High-level amplification of C-MYC is associated with progression from the in situ to the invasive stage of breast carcinomas		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Aberrant P-cadherin expression: Is it associated with estrogen-independent growth in breast cancer?	Breast carcinomas represent a heterogeneous group of tumors, with a diverse biologic behavior, outcome, and response to therapy. Recent studies have demonstrated that alterations in the expression of adhesion molecules in cancer cells are related to aggressiveness and poor prognosis. The aim of our study was to investigate the expression of P-cadherin in breast carcinomas and correlate it with estrogen receptor (ER) status. We selected 73 ductal carcinomas in situ (DCIS) and 149 invasive carcinomas of the breast, and assessed the expression of P-cadherin as well as other biologic markers. P-cadherin expression showed a strong inverse correlation with ER expression in both types of breast carcinoma (in situ and invasive). P-cadherin-positive and ER-negative tumors were related to a higher histologic grade, a high proliferation rate, and expression of c-erbB-2. We demonstrated that P-cadherin identifies a subgroup of breast carcinomas that lacks ER expression, and correlates with higher proliferation rates and other predictors of aggressive behavior. We believe that these tumors represent an advanced step in cancer progression, and our data support the hypothesis that an estrogen-independent pathway regulates P-cadherin expression.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Breast carcinoma in situ: Risk factors and screening patterns	Background: Risk factors associated with invasive breast cancer are well documented, but those associated with breast carcinoma in situ are not well defined. Methods: We conducted a population-based, case-control study among female residents of Connecticut to identify risk factors for breast carcinoma in situ. Case patients, diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) (n = 875) or lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) (n = 123), were matched by 5-year age groups with control subjects (n = 999). Case patients were diagnosed between September 15, 1994, through March 14, 1998, and all subjects were between the ages of 20 and 79 years. Information on risk factors and cancer-screening history was collected by telephone interviews. Conditional logistic regression was used to determine odds ratios (ORs) for the association of these factors with the risk of DCIS and LCIS. Results: Case patients with DCIS were more likely than control subjects to report a family history of breast cancer (OR = 1.48; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.19 to 1.85) or previous breast biopsy (OR = 3.56; 95% CI = 2.86 to 4.43). They also had fewer full-term pregnancies (OR = 0.86; 95% CI = 0.80 to 0.93) and were older at first full-term pregnancy (OR for being 20-29 years old relative to being <20 years old = 1.68; 95% CI = 1.17 to 2.43) and at menopause (OR for being gtoreq55 years old relative to being <45 years old = 1.71; 95% CI = 1.05 to 2.77). DCIS case patients were more likely than control subjects to have had a mammographic examination (OR = 2.46; 95% CI = 1.78 to 3.40) or an annual clinical breast examination (OR = 1.83; 95% CI = 1.48 to 2.26). DCIS patients and control subjects did not differ with respect to oral contraceptive use, hormone replacement therapy, alcohol consumption or smoking history, or breast self-examination. Associations for LCIS were similar. Conclusions: The risk factors associated with DCIS and LCIS are similar to those associated with invasive breast cancer. Diagnosis of DCIS is associated with increased mammography screening.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Incidence of second cancers among women with in situ carcinoma of the breast	A population-based cohort of 371 women with carcinoma in situ (CIS) of the breast, collected by the Tuscany Cancer Registry, has been analysed for further invasive cancers. All cases, diagnosed between 1985 and 1997, have been followed up to the end of 1997. During 1707 person-years of follow-up, 27 further invasive cancers were diagnosed while 13.7 were expected (Observed/Expected=2.0, P<0.05). The relative risk for invasive breast cancers was 3.7 (P<0.05). According to the surgical treatment for CIS and the site of further invasive breast cancer, no side specific difference was evident. No significant increase was evident for other cancer sites; only non-melanomatous skin cancers occurred more frequently than expected (O/E=4.2). The cumulative risk of developing an invasive cancer after CIS was 13.2% at 10 years. There were also two deaths due to breast cancer (O/E=8.3; P<0.05) corresponding to a cumulative mortality risk of 2% at 10 years. We have quantified the risk of developing an invasive breast cancer among women with CIS of the breast as four times that of the general population.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Surgical treatment and prognosis of breast carcinoma in situ	Objective: To study the curative effect of operation and the prognosis of breast carcinoma in situ. Methods: In the period of 20 years follow up, 97 cases of breast cancer in situ were studied retrospectively. Results: The 5-, 10-, 15- and 20-year survival rates of this series were 99.0%, 89.8%, 83.3% and 80.0% respectively. The 10-year survival rate in intraductal carcinoma was lower than others. The modality of operation showed no difference in the prognosis of these patients (P>0.05). Conclusion: The prognosis of breast cancer in situ may be associated with the multifocal lesions but not related with the modality of operation. Simple mastectomy is the first choice for breast cancer in situ.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Tumour markers in breast carcinoma correlate with grade rather than with invasiveness	Ductal breast carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is regarded as a precursor to invasive breast cancer. The progression from in situ to invasive cancer is however little understood. We compared some tumour markers in invasive and in situ breast carcinomas trying to find steps in this progression. We designed a semi-experimental setting and compared histopathological grading and tumour marker expression in pure DCIS (n = 194), small invasive lesions (n = 127) and lesions with both an invasive and in situ component (n = 305). Grading was done according to the Elston-Ellis and EORTC classification systems, respectively. Immunohistochemical staining was conducted for p53, c-erbB-2, Ki-67, ER, PR, bcl-2 and angiogenesis. All markers correlated with grade rather than with invasiveness. No marker was clearly associated with the progression from in situ to invasiveness. The expression of tumour markers was almost identical in the 2 components of mixed lesions. DCIS as a group showed a more 'malignant picture' than invasive cancer according to the markers, probably, due to a higher proportion of poorly differentiated lesions. The step between in situ and invasive cancer seems to occur independently of tumour grade. The results suggest that well-differentiated DCIS progress to well-differentiated invasive cancer and poorly differentiated DCIS progress to poorly differentiated invasive cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Contribution of germline MLH1 and MSH2 mutations to lobular carcinoma in situ of the breast	Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) is an unusual histological pattern of non-invasive neoplastic disease of the breast occurring predominantly in women aged between 40 and 50 years. LCIS is frequently multicentric and bilateral suggesting a genetic basis to the disease. The high frequency of microsatellite instability in lobular breast cancers, coupled with increased risk of breast cancer associated with germline mismatch repair gene mutations raises the possibility that mutations MSH2 or MLH1 might confer susceptibility to LCIS. To explore this possibility we have examined a series of 71 LCIS patients for germline MSH2 and MLH1 mutations. No mutations were detected in MSH2. Two sequence variants were identified in MLH1. The first was a CTT fwdarw CAT substitution, codon 607 (exon 16) changing leucine to histidine. The other mutation detected in MLH1 was a TAC fwdarw TAA substitution codon 750 (exon 19) creating a stop codon, predicted to generate a truncated protein. These findings suggest that mutations in MLH1 may underlie a subset of LCIS cases.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Computerized image analysis of Ki-67 in ductal breast carcinoma in situ	OBJECTIVE: To develop and determine the staining protocols and computerized image analysis methods that are the most effective combination for performing quantitative analysis of Ki-67. STUDY DESIGN: We compared conventional brightfield light microscopy and refractive optical enhancement methods in combination with various immunodetection and filter enhancement methods, including immunogold in combination with epipolarization refractive optics and enzymatic conversion of chromogenic substrates in combination with optical filter enhancement. Initial Ki-67 tests were performed on lymph node tissues and cultured human breast cells and then applied to 200 ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) samples. DCIS acini were digitally acquired, and a region of interest was manually outlined in each one with a digital stylus to include only the cellular component; then the Ki-67 staining index was quantified by segmentation analysis. RESULTS: Although combining epipolarization analysis with immunohistogold staining was the most sensitive detection method, nonspecific binding was too high. The streptavidin-horseradish-peroxidase enzymatic conversion of 3,3'-diaminobenzidine (DAB) in combination with optical enhancement filters was the most effective method tested. Ki-67 stain was associated with dense fibrillar structures of the nucleoli in the less intensely staining nuclei and was most intense in paired nuclei. CONCLUSION: The method of measuring Ki-67 expression by DAB staining combined with optical enhancement filters and quantification via computer-assisted image analysis techniques produced objective and reproducible results. As such, this method can offer (1) less intraobserver and interobserver variability, (2) a digital archival record, and (3) a baseline for digital exchange of information between studies.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Disparate E-cadherin mutations in LCIS and associated invasive breast carcinomas	Aims: The relation between lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and invasive breast cancer is unresolved. In an attempt to establish whether LCIS is a precursor of invasive cancer the mutational status and the expression of E-cadherin was analysed in LCIS and associated invasive breast carcinoma in 23 patients. Methods: Foci of LCIS and associated invasive carcinoma were individually microdissected from tissue from 23 patients. Exons 4-16 of the E-cadherin gene were analysed using single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP); protein expression and the localisation of E-cadherin and beta-catenin were assessed with the use of immunohistochemistry. Results: Immunohistochemistry revealed a lack of expression of E-cadherin and beta-catenin in most LCIS samples and invasive foci. In all but four cases, the staining pattern was identical in the LCIS and associated invasive areas. When E-cadherin was absent, beta-catenin was also undetected, suggesting a lack of expression of alternative classic cadherin members in these lesions. Coincident E-cadherin mutations in LCIS and associated invasive carcinoma were not identified in this series of patients. However, mutational analysis of E-cadherin in multiple foci of carcinoma in situ surrounding an invasive lesion provided evidence to support ductal carcinoma in situ as a precursor of invasive ductal carcinoma. Conclusion: These data support the hypothesis that LCIS is not a precursor of invasive breast carcinoma but a marker of increased risk of developing invasive disease.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Carcinomas in situ of the breast with indeterminate features: Role of E-cadherin staining in categorization	Most breast carcinomas in situ (CIS) are easily categorized as ductal (DCIS) or lobular (LCIS). However, some CIS have indeterminate histologic features (CIS-IF). Prior studies have shown that E-cadherin protein expression is lost in lobular but not ductal carcinomas. Therefore, evaluation of examples of CIS-IF for E-cadherin expression by immunohistochemistry might be useful in helping to define their nature. To address this, we studied histologic features and E-cadherin expression by immunohistochemistry in 89 cases of breast CIS (28 LCIS, 33 DCIS, 28 CIS-IF). CIS-IF cases were divided into three groups based on histology: Group 1 cases had all the cytologic and architectural features typical of LCIS but showed areas of comedo-type necrosis (n = 6). Group 2 cases were CIS lesions characterized by small, uniform neoplastic cells either growing in a solid pattern with focal microacinar-like structures but with cellular dyshesion, or growing in a cohesive mosaic pattern but with occasional intracytoplasmic vacuoles (n = 17). Group 3 cases showed marked cellular pleomorphism and nuclear atypia but had the dyshesive growth pattern characteristic of LCIS (n = 5). E-cadherin staining was scored as negative, positive, or mixed (mixture of negative and positive tumor cells). All 28 cases of LCIS were E-cadherin negative, and all 33 DCIS cases were E-cadherin positive by immunohistochemistry. All cases from CIS-IF group 1 and group 3 were negative for E-cadherin, suggesting a closer kinship to LCIS than to DCIS. In contrast, CIS-IF group 2 cases were heterogeneous with respect to E-cadherin staining. Six (35.3%) cases were E-cadherin negative (more akin to LCIS), 5 (29.4%) cases were E-cadherin positive (akin to DCIS), and 6 (35.3%) cases had both E-cadherin-positive and E-cadherin-negative tumor cells, suggesting a mixed DCIS/LCIS phenotype. Our findings suggest that E-cadherin immunostaining is of value in helping to characterize breast carcinomas in situ with indeterminate features. However, validation of these observations will require clinical outcome studies.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	The Royal Marsden Hospital (RMH): Trial key points and remaining questions		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Radiotherapy is not associated with an increased risk of second primary cancer in contralateral breast in women treated for ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Investigation of cell cycle genomics in normal, premalignant and malignant breast tissue		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Study of the biological effects of the aromatase inhibitor letrozole in healthy postmenopausal women: Rationale for prevention		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Identifying subjects for breast cancer risk reduction: An epidemiologic approach		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Carcinoma in situ of the breast in males and subsequent invasive breast cancer		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Gene amplifications detected by fluorescence in situ hybridization in pure intraductal breast carcinomas: Relation to morphology, cell proliferation and expression of breast cancer-related genes	Investigation of early breast carcinogenesis is limited by the difficulty in obtaining cell cultures or adequate fresh frozen material and by the fact that available data from in situ techniques are interpreted in terms of various classification systems. Our studies in a series of pure ductal carcinomas in situ (DCIS) were conducted in accordance with the recommendations of the international Consensus Conference (Hum. Pathol., 28, 122-125, 1997) relative to processing, determination of lesion extent, and histological stratification primarily on nuclear grade (NG). A multifactorial study performed in 15 low- and 16 high-NG DCIS (68% detected by mammography) included the following: (1) morphological analysis of NG, necrosis, and architectural pattern; (2) detection of numerical genomic abnormalities at ERBB2, MYC, CCND1, Xq1.2 and 20q13 loci by fluorescence in situ hybridization on interphase nuclei; and (3) immunohistochemical determination of cell proliferation, p53 accumulation, hormonal receptors and bcl-2 expression on serial sections of formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded specimens. High NG, comedo/solid pattern and necrosis were significantly associated with amplification at one or more loci, the number of amplified loci, amplification at the ERBB2 locus, absence of bcl-2 and hormonal receptor expression and high cell proliferation (p < 0.05). High NG and comedo/solid pattern were significantly associated with MYC amplification and p53 accumulation, and necrosis with CCND1 amplification (the only gene amplification detected in low NG DCIS). These data provide additional information on the early steps of breast carcinogenesis, in accordance with currently recognized criteria of histological classification.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	UKCCCR DCIS Trial: The histopathology review		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Risk factors for carcinoma in situ of the breast	As more women obtain screening mammograms regularly and at younger ages, the diagnosis of breast carcinoma in situ becomes more frequent. To examine whether risk factors for carcinoma in situ correspond with risk factors for invasive breast cancer, we analyzed data from a population-based case-control study conducted in 1988-1990. We identified newly diagnosed cases of carcinoma in situ (n = 301) and invasive breast cancer (n = 3789) in women 18-74 years of age from Wisconsin's statewide tumor registry. Cases and population controls (n = 3999) completed structured telephone interviews. Overall, associations with risk of carcinoma in situ in relation to many reproductive life-style risk factors were similar to those associated with risk of invasive disease. Women who reported a family history of breast cancer had a 2-fold elevated risk of carcinoma in situ (odds ratio, 2.67; 95% confidence interval, 2.00-3.57). Personal history of benign biopsied breast disease also increased risk of carcinoma in situ (odds ratio, 2.19; 95% confidence interval, 1.62-2.95). Subgroup analysis suggested that high vitamin A intake and high alcohol intake may be associated with risk of ductal but not lobular carcinoma in situ. These data support the presence of common risk factors between in situ and invasive breast cancer.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Stromelysin-3 expression in noninvasive and invasive neoplasms of the urinary bladder	Stromelysin-3 (ST-3) is a protease frequently expressed by fibroblasts surrounding invasive carcinomas. Based on its expression in some cases of breast carcinoma-in-situ, it has been thought to indicate a higher likelihood for subsequent invasion in preinvasive lesions. Carcinoma-in-situ (pTis) and noninvasive papillary tumor (pTa) of the urinary bladder are preinvasive lesions with an uncertain potential to become invasive. We studied the expression of ST-3 in pTis, pTa, and invasive bladder tumors to see whether it had an association with any established histopathologic variables and whether its expression might be an indicator of incipient invasion in the preinvasive lesions. Twenty-seven pTis, 27 pTa tumors, and 56 invasive bladder carcinomas were studied for ST-3 expression with immunohistochemistry and, in selected cases, with in situ hybridization. Staining for ST-3 was evaluated semiquantitatively. None of 27 pTis lesions, 4 of 27 pTa tumors, and 41 of 56 (73.2%) invasive carcinomas were positive for ST-3. Statistically significant associations were found in the invasive carcinomas between ST-3 expression and lymphatic vessel invasion, an infiltrative invasive pattern, and invasion into at least the muscle layer (pT2,3,4 v pT1). The expression of ST-3 in frankly invasive tumors was associated with a more aggressive tumor phenotype. Its expression in a small subgroup of pTa lesions may be indirect evidence that some tumors diagnosed as pTa have invasive potential.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Carcinoma in situ of the breast: Correlation of histopathology to immunohistochemical markers and DNA ploidy	In a consecutive and unselected series of 178 cases of carcinoma in situ of the breast (CIS), comprising both ductal (DCIS) and lobular type (LCIS), and a series of 48 cases of invasive carcinoma (IC) with predominance of DCIS, the association between histopathology, immunohistochemical markers (ER, PgR, MIB-1, c-erbB-2, and p53), and DNA ploidy was investigated, in order to discriminate biologically different groups. In DCIS, significant correlation was shown between large nuclear size and comedonecrosis, both of which showed also strong association to DNA aneuploidy, high proliferation activity, low steroid receptor content, and overexpression of c-erbB-2 and p53 - factors that may indicate an aggressive behavior. Small nuclear CIS, whether LCIS or DCIS, on the contrary, were DNA diploid with low proliferation, and no cases showed overexpression of c-erbB-2 and p53. Heterogeneity with respect to the investigated parameters was also a frequent finding that may reflect a development complexity. In IC, comparison of the DCIS and the invasive component showed similar patterns. No significant differences were shown between DCIS without and with invasion. This may indicate that none of the investigated parameters on its own are essential for the event of invasion.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Molecular cytogenetic comparison of apocrine metaplasia and apocrine carcinoma of the breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Improved xenotransplantation of human breast cancer in immunocompromised mouse model		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Risk of subsequent invasive breast cancer after breast carcinoma in situ	The standardised incidence rates for invasive breast cancer were estimated in a cohort of 3455 women with a primary lobular or ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	p53 mutations and expression in breast carcinoma in situ	The p53 tumor suppressor gene is altered in approximately half of human cancers. Although p53 mutations are common in invasive breast carcinoma, few have been identified in breast carcinoma in situ (intraductal breast carcinomas). Most studies of p53 in breast carcinoma in situ are immunohistochemical studies of p53 staining in paraffin-embedded tissue sections. Few studies have isolated the tumor cells and subjected them to DNA sequence analysis. The current study was undertaken to characterize p53 in a cohort of breast carcinoma in situ cases, both with and without invasive disease. Fifty-eight frozen breast biopsy samples were used for these investigations. Twenty-seven cases had only ductal carcinoma in situ (CIS) and 31 cases had evidence of both invasive and in situ carcinoma. DNA sequence alterations in exons 2 through 11 of p53 were screened by the single-strand conformational polymorphism technique. Exons with altered mobility were sequenced. Among breast CIS cases without invasive disease, 22% had p53 mutations and 7% had DNA sequence alterations of unknown significance. Analysis of breast CIS with concurrent invasive disease demonstrated p53 mutations in 19% of cases and one (3%) DNA alteration of unknown significance. Each carcinoma having a p53 mutation in the breast CIS component had the identical mutation in the invasive component of the same tumor indicating a clonal relationship between the two tumor components. p53 protein overexpression was identified in 22% of pure intraductal breast carcinomas and in 35% of breast CIS with invasive disease. Comparison of immunostaining and DNA sequence alterations showed a significant association between overexpression and mutations (P = 0.0037) in cases of CIS without invasion, and similarly between overexpression and mutations in cases of CIS with invasion (P = 0.007). p53 mutations and p53 overexpression were relatively common in intraductal breast carcinomas but were not observed in adjacent normal breast lobules or ducts in 9 cases available for DNA analysis. The frequency of p53 alterations when comparing breast CIS with and without an invasive component indicated that p53 mutations usually occur before invasion during the progression of breast cancer, as is observed for a number of other adult solid tumors.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Heterogeneous chromosomal aberrations in intraductal breast lesions adjacent to invasive carcinoma		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Carcinomas in situ (CIS) of the breast with indeterminate features: Role of E-cadherin (e-cad) staining in categorization		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Prognosis in women with a carcinoma in situ of the breast: A population-based study in Sweden	We studied the risk of invasive breast cancer and breast cancer death after a breast carcinoma in situ during a period when mammography screening became a nationwide practice and when breast conservation was introduced. In a study base including all 4661 women registered to the Swedish Cancer Registry for a first carcinoma in situ between 1960 and 1992, we selected a cohort of 3398 women diagnosed between 1980 and 1992. The recruitment period was chosen according to the reporting routines for the registry. The corrected survival was 97.4% after 10 years. The risk of invasive cancer was similar in the ipsilateral and contralateral breast. Women diagnosed between 1989 and 1992 ran a relative risk of 0.1 (95% confidence interval, 0.0-0.9) of dying of breast cancer, as compared with women diagnosed from 1980-1982. Residence in counties where mammography screening was available was associated with a relative risk of 0.2 (95% confidence interval, 0.0-2.1) for breast cancer death in the age groups screened. Screening mammography may have contributed to the improvement of prognosis over this time period. This study cannot distinguish between lead time effects and a "true" improvement in prognosis. The increased use of breast conservation was not associated with a worse prognosis in the group as a whole. The study indicates that at least 50% of invasive cancers occurring after treatment for in situ lesions may be new cancers.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Expression of p27kip1 protein in ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Recent trends of in situ carcinoma of the breast and mammographic screening in the Florence area, Italy	Objectives: The study analyzes the relationship between the incidence trends of breast carcinoma in situ (CIS) and the spread of mammography screening in the Italian area of Florence (about 608,000 female residents). Setting: In this area, since the seventies, a mammographic screening by personal invitation was performed by the Center for Cancer Prevention (CSPO) in some rural municipalities. After 1990, the municipality of Florence and other municipalities were involved in the screening. Methods: The study included all cases of female breast carcinomas in situ reported to the population-based Tuscany Cancer Registry between 1985 and 1995. On the basis of information from the CSPO files, the cases were categorized into: "screen-detected", "self-referrals", and "other" (CSPO cases diagnosed in symptomatic women or at periodic check up after breast cancer plus hospital cases). Results: Overall, 332 women with breast carcinoma in situ (CIS) were registered between 1985 and 1995. The CIS incidence rate increased from 2.39/100,000 women in 1985-87 to 6.22/100,000 in 1994-95. The largest increase was observed for the ductal carcinoma in situ (2.9 times) and in women aged 50-69 years (3.8 times). In this age group, cases diagnosed at the screening by personal invitation accounted for 69% of the rise in CIS incidence. The proportion of mastectomy lowered from 41% before 1990 to 25% after 1990. Conclusion: In the Florence area the CIS incidence trend, showing a marked increase beginning in 1991, was mainly explained by the spread of the mammographic screening by personal invitation. The period during which mammographic screening became widespread coincided with a change in the treatment policy of breast cancer, with a high proportion of breast conserving surgery also for CIS. Therefore, the rise in CIS incidence rates correlated with the widespread use of mammographic screening did not substantially increase the number of women treated by mastectomy.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Telomerase activity in ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive breast cancer	The increasing number of breast carcinoma in situ detected by screening procedures makes it imperative to develop improved markers to stratify the risk of invasive cancer. Telomerase is detectable in invasive cancer, but not in normal tissues. We have microdissected frozen tissue blocks containing both DCIS and invasive cancer to assay the telomerase activity of these two lesions. The 46 available cases of concurrent DCIS and invasive breast cancer resulted in 43 DCIS samples and 38 invasive cancer samples adequate for analysis. Seventy per cent of the DCIS and all invasive cancer samples tested had detectable telomerase activity. In addition, we analysed telomerase activity in ten cases of DCIS that were not associated with invasive cancer, and detected telomerase activity in seven (70%). Mixing experiments showed no evidence of telomerase inhibitors in telomerase negative samples. Furthermore, periductal inflammatory infiltrates were shown to be a potential confounding source of telomerase activity. Since DCIS lesions appear to be heterogeneous with respect to telomerase activity, and telomerase activation appears to precede the development of invasive cancer, telomerase activity may be a useful adjunct in stratifying the risk of developing invasive breast cancer in patients with DCIS.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Predictors of local recurrence after treatment of ductal carcinoma in situ:A meta-analysis	BACKGROUND. Management of patients with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) is a dilemma, as mastectomy provides nearly a 100% cure rate but at the expense of physical and psychologic morbidity. It would be helpful if we could predict which patients with DCIS are at sufficiently high risk of local recurrence after conservative surgery (CS) alone to wan-ant postoperative radiotherapy (FM and which patients are at sufficient risk of local recurrence after CS + RT to warrant mastectomy. The authors reviewed the published studies and identified the factors that may be predictive of local recurrence after management by mastectomy, CS alone, or CS + RT. METHODS. The authors examined patient, tumor, and treatment factors as potential predictors for local recurrence and estimated the risks of recurrence based on a review of published studies. They examined the effects of patient factors (age at diagnosis and family history), tumor factors (sub-type of DCIS, grade, tumor size, necrosis, and margins), and treatment (mastectomy, CS alone, and CS + RT). The 95% confidence intervals (CI) of the recurrence rates for each of the studies were calculated for subtype, grade, and necrosis, using the exact binomial; the summary recurrence rate and 95% CI for each treatment category were calculated by quantitative meta-analysis using the fixed and random effects models applied to proportions. RESULTS. Meta-analysis yielded a summary recurrence rate of 22.5% (95% CI 16.9-28.2) for studies employing CS alone, 8.9% (95% CI = 6.8-11.0) for CS + RT, and 1.4% (95% CI = 0.7-2.1) for studies involving mastectomy alone. These summary figures indicate a clear and statistically significant separation, and therefore outcome, between the recurrence rates of each treatment category, despite the likelihood that the patients who underwent CS alone were likely to have had smaller, possibly low grade lesions with clear margins. The patients with risk factors of presence of necrosis, high grade cytologic features, or comedo subtype were found to derive the greatest improvement in local control with the addition of RT to CS. Local recurrence among patients treated by CS alone is approximately 20%, and one-half of the recurrences are invasive cancers. For most patients, RT reduces the risk of recurrence after CS alone by at least 50%. The differences in local recurrence between CS alone and CS + RT are most apparent for those patients with high grade tumors or DCIS with necrosis, or of the "comedo" subtype, or DCIS with close or positive surgical margins. CONCLUSIONS. The authors recommend that radiation be added to CS if patients with DCIS who also have the risk factors for local recurrence choose breast conservation over mastectomy. The patients who may be suitable for CS alone outside of a clinical trial may be those who have low grade lesions with little or no necrosis, and with clear surgical margins. Use of the summary statistics when discussing outcomes with patients may help the patient make treatment decisions.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Parity, age at first birth and the risk of carcinoma in situ of the breast	Epidemiological studies of in situ breast cancer are sparse, and the role of reproductive history, an established risk modifier for invasive breast cancer, remains incompletely investigated. To examine possible associations with parity and age at first birth, we undertook a case-control study nested in a nationwide cohort of Swedish women. The reproductive history of 1,368 women aged 65 or younger with a diagnosis of carcinoma in situ of the breast were compared with that of 6,837 age-matched controls drawn randomly from a population-based Fertility Registry. Statistical analyses were performed by conditional logistic regression. Compared to nulliparous women, ever-parous women were at a reduced risk of carcinoma in situ of the breast. The risk decreased with number of live births, with the estimated risk reduction in the highest parity group (5+), being of the same magnitude as that reported for invasive breast cancer. By contrast, a positive association with increasing age at first birth was somewhat less pronounced than that observed previously in the same data set with respect to invasive breast cancer. Our findings indicate that parity affects the risk of invasive breast cancer and carcinoma in situ similarly, whereas the effect of age at first birth appears to be weaker for the risk of carcinoma in situ.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Second cancers following in situ carcinoma of the breast	Carcinoma in situ (CIS) of the breast has increased manyfold in incidence rates and as a proportion of new breast cancers following the introduction of mammographic breast screening. To provide population-based estimates of invasive breast cancer risk following CIS, we linked data on 249 incident primary CIS (median age 53 years) to the Cancer Registry of the Swiss Canton of Vaud (about 600,000 inhabitants) over the period 1977-1994. Women with concurrent invasive cancers of the breast were not included. Standardized incidence ratios (SIR) were determined according to the exact Poisson distribution, with stratification for age and year of diagnosis. A total of 24 cases of breast cancer vs. 3.4 expected (SIR = 7.2, 95% confidence interval (CI): 4.6-10.6), and 7 cases of other neoplasms (except non-melanomatous skin cancer) vs. 6.9 expected (SIR = 1.0, 95% CI: 0.4-2.1) were observed. The SIR was 10.4 during the first year, 5.6 between 1 and 4 years, and 7.7 after gtoreq5 years after CIS diagnosis. SIRs were consistent in women below and above age 55 years, but somewhat higher for ductal (SIR = 8.6) than lobular (SIR = 4.2) CIS. Six deaths from breast cancer were observed vs. 1.5 expected (standardized mortality ratio = 4.0, 95% CI: 1.5-8.7). In 13/19 ductal CIS, but in 2/4 lobular CIS, invasive cancer occurred in the same breast. In most women, CIS and subsequent invasive cancer showed the same morphological (i.e., ductal or lobular) features. The cumulative risk of breast cancer was 16% 10 years after CIS diagnosis, emphasizing the importance of adequate surveillance of women after CIS of the breast.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Breast carcinoma in situ in a male: Report of a case diagnosed by nipple discharge cytology	Background. Cytologic evaluation of abnormal nipple secretion is a well-established method for the rapid diagnosis of breast carcinoma in females. However, less attention has been focused on male patients presenting with nipple discharge. Case: A case of intraductal carcinoma of the male breast was diagnosed by nipple discharge cytology alone. This report illustrates the usefulness of nipple discharge cytology in the diagnosis of early breast carcinoma in males.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Biological profile of in situ breast cancer investigated by immunohistochemical technique	In 74 in situ breast cancers an immunohistochemical study for estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptors, proliferation index (PI), and c-erbB-2, p53, and bcl-2 overexpression was performed. Cases were categorized as ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) comedo: 24.3% of cases; DCIS non comedo: 27% of cases; DCIS cribriform: 5.4% of cases; lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS): 16.3% of cases; mixed carcinoma in situ: 27% of cases. Quantitation of immunohistochemical results was obtained with an image analysis computerized system (CAS 200). The cutoff values used were: 10% of positive area for ER, PR, NEU, and bcl-2; 5% of positive area for p53; 13% of PI for proliferative activity. DCIS cribriform and LCIS displayed a higher positivity for ER (92.6 and 93.8% of cases); DCIS cribriform and DCIS non comedo a higher for PR (89 and 75.3%); DCIS comedo presented the highest values for PI (65.4%), NEU (72.8%), and p53 expression (37.3%). All DCIS cribriform and DCIS non comedo and 99.6% of LCIS expressed bcl-2. The results underscore the importance of biological characterization of breast carcinoma in situ with the aim to define lesions natural history.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	p53 mutations and expression in breast carcinoma in situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Outcome after invasive recurrence in patients with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of the breast		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	The risk of a contralateral breast cancer among women diagnosed with ductal and lobular breast carcinoma in-situ: Data from the Connecticut Tumor Registry		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Time trend of female breast carcinoma in situ by race and histology in Connecticut, U.S.A	A rapid increase of female breast cancer has been reported in many areas of the world and the reasons are not fully understood. While some have attributed the increase to the increasing detection of early stage breast cancer through mammography screening, few studies have directly examined the time trend of in situ breast cancer specifically. This study included all incident cases of female breast carcinoma in situ reported to the Connecticut Tumor Registry between 1973 and 1992. The age-adjusted incidence rates and age-specific incidence rates were calculated by histology and by race. The age-adjusted incidence rates were standardized to the 1970 United States standard million population. The study found that the overall age-adjusted incidence rate of in situ breast cancer has increased dramatically, from 3.53/100 000 in 1973-1975 to 17.51/100 000 in 1991-1992. The increase was not uniform during the past two decades of cancer registration. In fact, most of the observed rise has occurred since the early 1980s. This increase was found in both Caucasians and Blacks. The results by histology indicate that the dramatic increase in carcinoma in situ is mostly attributable to an increase in ductal carcinoma in situ. The increase was also observed in all age groups 40 years and over. These results are consistent with the use pattern and the reported effect of mammography screening. Therefore, these results are qualitatively consistent with the idea that mammography screening is largely responsible for the recent upsurge in female breast cancer incidence in this population. The study also found that the age group 40-49 years in whites experienced a rapid increase in incidence that began in the same time period as the older age groups, but it has since levelled off. The potential impact of the highly publicised debate regarding the efficacy of mammography in this age group in recent years is discussed.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Comparative genomic hybridisation of ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast: Identification of regions of DNA amplification and deletion in common with invasive breast carcinoma	Comparative genomic hybridisation has been used to map copy number changes in nine cases of ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast obtained from wax-embedded archive material. A wide variety of abnormalities were detected including gain of regions of 1q, 17q, 19q, 20p and 20q and loss on 13q, 14q, 17p, 16q and 22q. Amplification of areas on 10p, 8q and 20q were also observed. Chromosomal alterations were more frequent in higher grade DCIS and closely resemble those previously detected in invasive breast cancer using the same technique. These data provide strong molecular support for the view that DCIS is a precursor lesion of invasive breast carcinoma.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Biological heterogeneity of breast carcinoma in situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Biophenotypes of breast carcinoma in situ defined by image analysis of biological parameters	In 50 in situ breast cancers an immunohistochemical study, evaluating estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) receptors, Proliferation Index (PI), c-erbB-2/Neu and p53 expression was performed. According to histopathological diagnosis, cases were classified as follows: 14 comedo, 8 solid, 5 micropapillary, 6 lobular, 3 papillary, 1 apocrine and 12 mixed in situ carcinomas. The quantitation of immunohistochemical results was obtained with an image analysis computerized system (CAS 200) with a lesion-field method; tumors were subdivided in fields (1177) histologically homogeneous, with 40 x microscopic objective. For ER, PR, Neu and p53, 10% of the positive area was used as cut-off value; 13% was used for PI. Cribriform and lobular types showed a higher positivity for ER (92.1% and 95.5% of the fields); cribriform and papillary a higher for PR (92.6% and 93.9%). Comedo variant demonstrated the higher PI (52.7%), Neu and p53 expression (67.7% and 43%). A cluster analysis, performed on 608 fields, defined two groups according to biological homogeneous criteria. The results obtained identify the different biophenotypes of in situ carcinomas, suggesting the possibility of multiple cancerogenetic ways with a different weight of biological events.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Carcinoma in Situ: Report of a Case Diagnosed by Nipple Discharge Cytology Alone	A case of male breast carcinoma is reported, whose only clinical sign was a serous nipple discharge. The presence in the cytologic smears of atypical epithelial cells organized in a papillary structure suggested a papillary neoplasia, which at the histologic examination was found to be a ductal carcinoma in situ.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Interphase cytogenetic analysis of erbB2 and topoII-alpha co-amplification in invasive breast cancer and polysomy of chromosome 17 in ductal carcinoma in situ	Breast cancer is a genetically complex disease. Fluorescence in situ hybridization can be used to analyse the genetics of breast-cancer progression by interphase cytogenetics. We have analysed the histological distribution of erbB2 and topoll-alpha co-amplification in paraffin sections of invasive breast cancer and show that the co-amplified loci share the same histological distribution in the tumour and have a similar nuclear distribution within individual nuclei. Regions of the tumours without amplification are easily recognized and tumours with erbB2 and topoll-alpha co-amplification can be distinguished from those with erbB2 amplification alone. In addition, FISH was used to show polysomy of chromosome 17 in non-invasive ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast and erbB2 amplification in both the invasive and non-invasive components of a breast cancer biopsy. This report of an interphase cytogenetic analysis of non-invasive breast carcinoma in situ demonstrates the usefulness of FISH for the genetic study of breast cancer progression.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Carcinoma of stomach and breast with lymphoid stroma: Localisation of Epstein-Barr virus	Aims: To determine the presence of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) genome in six patients (three with gastric and three with breast carcinoma) with severe small lymphoid cell infiltration. Methods: The polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridisation were used to detect EBV genome. The number and distribution of T and B lymphocytes were evaluated by immunohistochemistry. Results: Histologically all of the patients had poorly differentiated tumours. Immunohistochemistry showed that T cells predominated in three cases, B cell in two, and almost equal numbers in one case. PCR showed that the EBV genome was present in two cases each of gastric and breast carcinoma. In situ hybridisation for EBV genome provided positive signals only in the small lymphoid cells in one gastric and two breast carcinomas giving a positive reaction for EBV genome by PCR. The gastric and breast cancer cells did not give positive signals. Conclusion: Severe lymphoid cell infiltration in gastric and breast carcinoma does not necessarily indicate that these tumours are associated with EBV. Larger numbers of cases will need to be studied to confirm this.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Allelotype of breast carcinoma in situ from paraffin sections, correlation with chromosome copy number		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Breast carcinoma in situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Nm23 protein expression in ductal in situ and invasive human breast carcinoma	Background: Mortality associated with human breast carcinoma is almost entirely due to subsequent metastatic disease, but the molecular basis of this metastasis is not understood. Elucidation of the genetic control of metastatic propensity of a tumor is important in determining prognosis and choice of therapy. Expression of nm23, a putative metastasis suppressor gene, has been detected in human breast cancers, but studies have not consistently shown high levels of the Nm23 messenger RNA or protein to be associated with better histological differentiation. This inconsistency suggests that Nm23 protein may act independently as a metastasis suppressor. Purpose: The purpose of this retrospective study was to investigate the relationship of Nm23 protein expression with 1) histology in ductal breast carcinoma in situ and 2) the variables considered to be the major prognostic indicators in invasive breast carcinoma. Methods: We obtained formalin-fixed biopsy specimens of breast tissue excised from 128 patients with breast lesions detected by mammography. Of these patients, 35 had been diagnosed with benign breast disease, 26 with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), and 67 with invasive carcinoma. Tissue sections were embedded in paraffin blocks, and immunohistochemical staining was used to determine Nm23 expression. Specimens were rated positive if all lesional epithelium was stained and negative if any lesional epithelium was unstained. Statistical analysis was performed by multiple regression analysis because of nonorthogonality of the data. Results: All 35 examples of benign breast disease showed uniform epithelial cell staining. The seven cases of comedo DCIS were negative for Nm23 protein; all 18 noncomedo types were positive. Nm23 negativity was significantly associated with worsening invasive ductal carcinoma grade and advancing lymph node stage but not with tumor diameter or vascular invasion. Despite the putative antimetastatic role of the nm23 gene, no statistically significant association was found between Nm23 protein expression and vascular invasion. Conclusions: The precise role of the nm23 gene remains to be established, but out simplified immunohistochemical rating system shows an association between Nm23 protein expression and the two most significant prognostic factors relating to histologic grade and stage. Nm23 negativity distinguished comedo ductal carcinoma in situ from the other histological types, a finding consistent with the fact that comedo histology is known to have a higher likelihood of becoming invasive and of having higher cell proliferation rates and higher expression of growth factor (c-erb B2) receptor.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Estrogen and progesterone receptor and c-erbB-2 oncoprotein analysis in pure in situ breast carcinoma: An immunohistochemical study	The authors studied 30 consecutive archival cases of pure breast carcinoma in situ (CIS) for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), and c-erbB-2 oncogene product. Clinical factors of age and menstrual status and histologic features of tumor type and nuclear grade were determined. Some 77% represented ductal CIS, with 10% noninvasive papillary, and 13% lobular CIS. A total of 22 of 30 (73%) were ER+ and 19 (63%) were PR+; 24 (80%) were c-erbB-2+ with 11 (37%) showing strong staining; 75% of the ER-PR group had tumors of NG-3, versus 14% for the ER+PR+ plus ER+PR- groups. Nonstatistically significant trends correlating the strongly positive oncogene group with PM status, receptor negativity, and high nuclear grade were noted. The overall rate of receptor positivity, as well as the correlation with nuclear grade, is similar to that in invasive carcinomas c-erbB-2 protein expression shows a higher rate in in situ than is reported for invasive tumors, and shows a tendency to be expressed more strongly in tumors with other features of poor prognosis. Therefore, these factors may also have prognostic significance in CIS. Continued followup of this population to recurrence may provide further insight.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Risk of contralateral primary breast cancer following a diagnosis of breast carcinoma in situ		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Receptors for estrogen and progesterone in breast carcinoma in situ	In contrast to the situation in invasive breast carcinoma, there are only few reports on the levels of receptors for estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PgR) in pre-invasive (in situ) breast carcinoma. In the present study ER and PgR levels were analyzed in 57 in situ human mammary carcinomas using a quantitative enzyme immunoassay method. Intraductal carcinoma was the dominating histopathological subgroup (75%). Within this subgroup the non-comedo and comedo variants comprised 66 and 34 percent respectively. Intralobular and papillary in situ subtypes were the second most frequent subgroups, representing 11% each. Using a cut-off level of 0.05 fmole/mu-g DNA to define receptor poor and rich tumors we found that thirty-one out of the 57 cases (54%) were ER-rich. In the ER-rich tumors the receptor levels varied between 0.05 and 6.50 fmole/mu-g with a mean concentration of 0.80 fmole/mu-g DNA. Fifteen of 51 (30%) tumors were classified as PgR-rich tumors in which the levels ranged between 0.05 and 2.90 fmoles/mu-g DNA, with a mean concentration of 0.45 fmoles/mu-g DNA. Two thirds of the non-comedo, lobular and papillary variant were ER rich. A majority (80%) of comedo tumors were ER poor. Our findings show that 54% of in situ breast carcinomas have the molecular prerequisities for response to antiestrogen therapy which is of interest when planning adjuvant treatment protocols.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	BREAST CARCINOMA-IN-SITU AN EMERGING PROBLEM IN SINGAPORE	Breast carcinoma-in-situ constitutes 4.1% of 707 breast cancers diagnosed between 1988 and 1990. Among these 30 patients, intraductal carcinoma-in-situ (DCIS) outnumbers lobular carcinoma-in-situ (LCIS) by 9-fold. They are mostly symptomatic - 87% present as breast lumps and/or nipple discharge, with 52% of lumps exceeding 2 cm size. Three patients were detected by screening mammography and it is expected that more breast carcinoma-in-situ will be detected through mammographic screening. Two-thirds of the patients had mastectomy while the rest had lesser procedures. The different surgical procedures and adjuvant therapy instituted for the patients are reflections of the differing opinions regarding optimum therapy for carcinoma-in-situ and the differing rationale for DCIS and LCIS lesions.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN C-ERBB-2 IMMUNOREACTIVITY AND THYMIDINE LABELLING INDEX IN BREAST CARCINOMA IN-SITU	The relationship between the presence of the c-erbB-2 protein, demonstrated immunohistochemically with antibody 21N, and thymidine labelling index (TLI) has been studied in the in situ component of 70 cases of carcinoma of the breast. A significant association was found between high TLI and positive staining. Twenty of the 70 cases stained (29%) and of those that were stained 75% had a high TLI; 43% of those with a high TLI stained positively but only 14% of those with a low TLI stained positively. Strong correlations were seen between nuclear size and histological pattern and both 21N staining and TLI. The majority of carcinomas of comedo pattern with large nuclei were 21N positive and had a high TLI, whilst those with small nuclei and a predominantly cribriform/micropapillary appearance did not stain and had a low TLI. In tumours of mixed histological pattern there was less concordance between staining and TLI. The significance of these findings in relation to the biological behaviour of these tumors and their clinical management is discussed.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	POTENTIAL VALUE OF HORMONE RECEPTOR ASSAY IN CARCINOMA IN-SITU OF BREAST	The estrogen receptor (ER) expression of invasive breast cancer has been extensively studied both biochemically and with specific monoclonal antibodies against ER. Relatively few studies have attempted to characterize ER pattern in breast carcinoma in situ (CIS) and in other premalignant lesions. In the current study, the authors investigated the pattern of ER expression in 62 cases of breast CIS, 30 of which had a component of invasive cancer, and 36 cases of atypical hyperplasia. Paraffin sections of formalin-fixed breast tissue underwent enzyme pretreatment ot expose nulcear antigenic sites as previously described. Breast tissues then underwent estrogen immunocytochemical assay using specific monoclonal antibodies (Abbott Laboratory, Chicago, IL). The cases were evaluated for heterogeneity, intensity of staining, and percentage of ER-positive cells. An attempt was made to study the relation between the pattern of ER expression, nuclearpleomorphism, and type of CIS. The results of ER immunocytochemical assay showed positive nuclear staining for ER in 75% of the CIS, 73% of CIS with invasive cancer, and 100% of atypical hyperplasias. ER expression in CIS agreed with that in the invasive carcinoma in 29 of 30 cases. This study also suggests that comedocarcinoma has a higher incidence of negative ER expression than the other types of CIS, particularly when it is associated with significant nuclear pleomorphism. There was no significant differnce in ER tumor heterogeneity between premalignant and malignant lesions.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	ASSOCIATION BETWEEN PROLIFERATIVE ACTIVITY AND IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STAINING FOR C-ERPB-2 PROTEIN IN BREAST CARCINOMA IN-SITU		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	STROMAL CHANGES IN EARLY INVASIVE BREAST CARCINOMA AN IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL HISTOENZYMOLOGICAL AND ULTRASTRUCTURAL STUDY	The purpose of this work was to detect in periductal connective tissue of breast carcinoma in situ changes induced by intraductal tumor cells before any debiscence in basement membrane. Histological, electron microscopic, immunohistochemical and histoenzymological methods were used in 3 carcinomas in situ, 4 microinvasive carcinomas and 13 control invasive carcinomas. We could demonstrate a high functional activity of fibroblasts with secretion of mucopolysaccharides and type III collagen around intraductal carcinomas. These changes occurred simultaneously to those of the basement membrane which was either thinning or thickening. Any dehiscence in basement membrane secondarily induced in this periductal stroma the usual changes seen in invasive stroma, peculiarly numerous vascular pedicles, myofibroblasts, elastic material. These periductal stromal changes are interpreted according to recent concepts about the possible influence of tumor cells upon their environment: stimulation of mitotic and metabolic activity of fibroblasts: stimulation of angiogenesis by means of an angiogenic factor.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	BREAST CARCINOMA IN SITU		BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	SERUM LEVELS OF VITAMIN A E C AND CAROTENOIDS IN HEALTHY SUBJECTS AND IN SUBJECTS WITH BREAST NEOPLASMS	Serum values of retinol, carotenoids, tocopherol and ascorbic acid were assayed in healthy adult females (Group A: 20 cases) and in subjects with fibrocistic mastopathy (Group B: 20 cases), benign breast neoplasms, as fibroadenomas and intraductal papillomas (Group C: 18 cases), and breast carcinoma in situ (Group D: 36 cases). Retinol and carotenoids were evaluated by spectrophotometry using trifluoroacetic acid. Tocopherol was determined by a colorimetric method involving the reduction of Fe+++ to Fe++ by tocopherol with the formation of a red complex of the Fe=+ with .alpha.,.alpha.'-dipirydyl. Ascorbic acid was estimated by a colorimetric method after derivatization with 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine. Our results point out that there is a highly significant decrease (p < 0.001) of average retinal serum levels in all three patient groups as compared with group A, whereas carotenoids resulted decreased but not significantly. Tocopherol was found to be significantly lower only in groups B (p < 0.05) and D (p < 0.01), ascorbic acid in groups B (p < 0.01) C (p < 0.05) and D (p < 0.001).	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	THE OBSTETRIC FUTURE OF CANCER PATIENTS AFTER TREATMENT	The fertility of women previously treated for cancer cannot be precisely assessed. Many pregnancies progress normally after treatment of a choriocarcinoma, Hodgkin's disease, a carcinoma of the breast, carcinoma in situ of the cervix or a carcinoma or leukemia during childhood. Abortions and congenital malformations are no more common, despite the previous treatment. The probability of recurrence is not affected by pregnancy. The child nevertheless remains exposed to a mutagenic risk, which is impossible to determine at the present time but which is probably modest. Various measures may be used to protect reproductive functions without compromising the results of treatment. At present, sterilization is indicated when pregnancy is definitively contraindicated, and contraception when there is a temporary contraindication. Therapeutic abortion is not medically necessary in the absence of recurrence. The cryopreservation of ova and ovarian transplantation could in certain cases improve the quality of survival in cured cancer patients.	BreastCarcinomaInSitu	dummy
dummy	Incidence of Breast Cancer in the Life Span Study of Atomic Bomb Survivors: 1958-2009	The importance of reproductive history in breast tissue development and etiology of sporadic breast cancer in females is well established. However, there is limited evidence of factors, other than age, that modify risk of radiation-related breast cancer. In this study, we evaluated breast cancer incidence in the Life Span Study cohort of atomic bomb survivors, adding 11 years of follow-up and incorporating reproductive history data. We used Poisson regression models to describe radiation risks and modifying effects of age and reproductive factors. Among 62,534 females, we identified 1,470 breast cancers between 1958 and 2009. Of 397 new cases diagnosed since 1998, 75% were exposed before age 20. We found a strong linear dose response with excess relative risk (ERR) of 1.12 per Gy [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.73 to 1.59] for females at age 70 after exposure at age 30. The ERR decreased with increasing attained age (P = 0.007) while excess absolute rate (EAR) increased with attained age up to age 70 (P < 0.001). Age at menarche was a strong modifier of the radiation effect: for a given dose, both the ERR and EAR decreased with increasing age at menarche (P = 0.007 and P < 0.001). Also, independently, age-at-exposure effects on ERR and EAR differed before and after menarche (P = 0.043 and P = 0.015, respectively, relative to log-linear trends), with highest risks for exposures around menarche. Despite the small number of male breast cancers (n = 10), the data continue to suggest a (lase response (ERR per Gy = 5.7; 95% CI: 03 to 30.8; P = 0.018). Persistently increased risk of female breast cancer after radiation exposure and its modification pattern suggests heightened breast sensitivity during puberty. (C) 2018 by Radiation Research Society	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Collaboration pattern in male breast cancer research	An analysis of 4168 research papers on male breast cancer (MBC) published by different countries and indexed by Science Citation Index Expanded during 2005-2014 indicates that only 15% of the papers were non-collaborative and the rest were published either in domestic or international collaboration. The sub-field of MBC had a high proportion of domestic collaboration. The number of papers written with domestic collaboration was almost three times the number of papers written with international collaboration. The value of co-authorship index (CAI) decreased in single-, two- and multi-authored papers in the second block 2010-2014 as compared to the first block (2005-2009). Higher value of CAI for mega-authored papers reflects higher collaborative coefficient (CC) in 2010-2014. The highest value of CC is for the sub-field S9 (genetics and heredity). This is also indicated by the highest value of CAI for mega-authored papers in this subfield. Among 17 highly productive institutions, CC value is more or equal to the global value of CC for 10 prolific institutions.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Recent Advances in the Biology of Male Breast Cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical evaluation of the expression of MAGE-C2 protein in breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer in men - about a series of 25 cases		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	X chromosome gain is related to increased androgen receptor expression in male breast cancer	X chromosome gain has been previously described in male breast cancer (MBC). Androgen receptor (AR) gene is located on X chromosome. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of the X chromosome gain in the development of MBC and its relation with AR gene copy number and expression.The X chromosome status was assessed in 66 cases of male invasive and in situ duct breast carcinoma, in 34 cases of gynecomastia associated with cancer, and in 11 cases of tumor-free gynecomastia. Cases were tested by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) to assess the X chromosome status and AR amplification. AR expression was studied by immunohistochemistry (IHC). In addition, AR methylation status was assessed.X chromosome gain was observed in 74.7% of invasive duct carcinoma, in 20.6% of in situ duct carcinoma, and in 14.6% of gynecomastia when associated with cancer, while all cases of tumor-free gynecomastia showed wild X chromosome asset. AR gene copy number when increased paralleled the number of X chromosomes. AR IHC expression was observed in 100% of MBC tested. AR gene methylation status revealed low level or absence of methylation.These data suggest that X chromosome can play a role in the neoplastic transformation of male breast epithelium. X chromosome gain is paralleled by AR gene polysomy. Polysomic AR genes show low methylation levels and high AR protein expression on NC. These data should be taken into consideration for MBC treatment planning.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A dietary pattern based on estrogen metabolism is associated with breast cancer risk in a prospective cohort of postmenopausal women	Increased exposure to estrogen is a risk factor for postmenopausal breast cancer, and dietary factors can influence estrogen metabolism. However, studies of diet and breast cancer have been inconclusive. We developed a dietary pattern associated with levels of unconjugated estradiol and the ratio of 2- and 16-hydroxylated estrogen metabolites in a subsample of Prostate, Lung, Colorectal and Ovarian Screening Trial (PLCO) participants (n=653) using reduced rank regression, and examined its association with postmenopausal breast cancer prospectively in the larger PLCO cohort (n=27,488). The estrogen-related dietary pattern (ERDP) was comprised of foods with positively-weighted intakes (non-whole/refined grains, tomatoes, cruciferous vegetables, cheese, fish/shellfish high in -3 fatty acids, franks/luncheon meats) and negatively-weighted intakes (nuts/seeds, other vegetables, fish/shellfish low in -3 fatty acids, yogurt, coffee). A 1-unit increase in the ERDP score was associated with an increase in total (HR: 1.09, 95% CI: 1.01-1.18), invasive (HR: 1.13; 95% CI: 1.04-1.24) and estrogen receptor (ER)-positive (HR: 1.13, 95% CI: 1.02-1.24) breast cancer risk after adjustment for confounders. Associations were observed for the fourth quartile of ERDP compared with the first quartile for overall breast cancer (HR: 1.14; 95% CI: 0.98-1.32), invasive cases (HR: 1.20, 95% CI: 1.02-1.42) and ER-positive cases (HR: 1.19; 95% CI: 0.99-1.41). The increased risk associated with increasing ERDP score was more apparent in strata of some effect modifiers (postmenopausal hormone therapy non-users and non-obese participants) where the relative estrogen exposure due to that factor was lowest, although the p values for interaction were not statistically significant. Results suggest a dietary pattern based on estrogen metabolism is positively associated with postmenopausal breast cancer risk, possibly through an estrogenic influence.What's new? Serum levels of estrogen metabolites, which may be influenced by certain dietary factors, are associated with postmenopausal breast cancer risk. However, studies of diet and breast cancer have been inconclusive. In our study, an estrogen-related dietary pattern (ERDP) was developed based on data from dietary questionnaires and serum concentrations of estrogen metabolites in a subsample of control participants and cancer patients. The ERDP strongly correlated with the intake of refined grains, cheese, lunch meats and yogurt. The ERDP was positively associated with postmenopausal breast cancer risk, with stronger effects in invasive and estrogen receptor-positive cases.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Characterising the adipose-inflammatory microenvironment in male breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) incidence seems to parallel global increases in obesity. The stromal microenvironment contributes to carcinogenesis; yet, the role of adipocytes in this is understudied in MBC. We identified four cohorts of male breast tissues diagnosed when obesity was rare (archival cohort) and more common (contemporary cohort). We examined the microenvironment of archival and contemporary cohorts of MBC, diagnosed 1940-1970 and 1998-2006, respectively, with two cohorts of, archival and contemporary gynaecomastia, diagnosed 1940-1979 and 1996-2011, respectively, serving as controls. We quantified adipocytes, crown-like structures (CLS) and the presence of CD8, alpha smooth muscle actin (alpha SMA) and CD68+ macrophages in both cohorts, and determined how these affected survival, in the contemporary MBC cohort. In both MBC cohorts, mean adipocyte diameter was larger in the distant stroma compared with stroma close to the invading tumour (92.2 mu m vs 66.7 mu m). This was not seen in gynaecomastia. CLS were more frequent in both MBC cohorts than gynaecomastia (44/55 (80%) vs 11/18 (61%), P < 0.001). No relationship was found between CLS number and adipocyte size, although there were greater numbers of CLS in contemporary MBC > archival MBC > gynaecomastia. CD8 and CD68 expression in the stroma was significantly associated with reduced survival, with no effects seen with aSMA. Changes in the adipose-inflammatory microenvironment may be a contributing factor to the increase seen in MBC diagnosis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Dietary Supplementation with Methylseleninic Acid Inhibits Mammary Tumorigenesis and Metastasis in Male MMTV-PyMT Mice	Male breast cancer, which makes up approximately 1% of all breast cancers, is an aggressive disease with poor prognosis. We investigated the effects of dietary supplementation with selenium in the form of methylseleninic acid [(MSeA) 2.5 mg selenium/kg] on mammary tumorigenesis in male MMTV-PyMT mice. The mammary tumor latency was 14.6 weeks for the MSeA-fed group and 13.8 weeks for the controls fed the AIN93G diet (p < 0.05). Dietary supplementation with MSeA, versus the control, resulted in a 72% reduction in tumor progression, a 46% reduction in both final volume and weight of mammary tumors, and a 70% reduction in the number of lung metastases. Mammary tumorigenesis in MMTV-PyMT mice, versus non-tumor-bearing wild-type mice, resulted in significant increases in concentrations of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, urokinase plasminogen activator, monocyte chemotactic protein-1, and vascular endothelial growth factor, but not aromatase and estrogen, in the plasma. Concentrations of all variables mentioned above in both plasma and mammary tumors were lower in MSeA-fed mice. Mammary tumorigenesis reduced plasma levels of adiponectin compared to non-tumor-bearing controls. Adiponectin concentrations in mammary tumors, but not in plasma, were higher in MSeA-fed mice than in controls. In summary, dietary supplementation with selenium in the form of MSeA inhibits mammary tumorigenesis and its pulmonary metastasis in male MMTV-PyMT mice.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Mutational analysis of candidate genes in Israeli male breast cancer cases	To define the mutational spectrum of several candidate gene mutations in Israeli male breast cancer cases.MBC cases counselled at the Oncogenetics unit, Sheba Medical Center from January 1998 to June 2017 were included. Relevant clinical and oncological data and cancer phenotype were retrieved. All participants were genotyped for the predominant Jewish BRCA1 and BRCA2 germline mutations using a chip-based assay. Those who tested negative were further genotyped for three recurring mutations in CHEK2 (c.1100delC, p.S428F, p.I157T), and single mutations in the FANCM (c.5791C > T), and RAD51D (c.556C > T) genes, by direct sequencing. The ethics committee approved the study.Overall, 61 MBC were identified and genotyped, 41 (67.2%) were Ashkenazim, age at diagnosis was 58.1 +/- 12.6 years, and 31 (50.8%) had a family history of cancer. Of genotyped individuals, one (1.6%) harboured the 185delAG* BRCA1 mutation, 7 (11.4%) the 6174delT*BRCA2 mutation and 2 (3.2%) other recurring mutations in BRCA2 (overall 10/61-16.4% BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation carriers). Of BRCA-negative cases, 3/51 (5.9%) carried the p.S428F *CHEK2 mutation. None was a carrier of the other genotyped mutations in CHEK2, FANCM or RAD51D.BRCA1, BRCA2 and CHEK2 germline mutations contribute to inherited predisposition to MBC in Israel.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Survival Comparisons Between Early Male and Female Breast Cancer Patients	We aimed to compare the overall survival (OS) and standardized mortality rate (SMR) of the male breast cancer (MBC) with female breast cancer (FBC) after propensity score matching. Based on the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER), the early breast cancer patients (T1-2N0-2M0) were extracted from 1998-2007. This study included 1,111 and 2,151 patients with early MBC and FBC, respectively, whose clinicopathological characteristics were well balanced. At a mean follow-up time of 97 months, 10-year OS rate was 58.3% in the MBC group and 68.7% in the FBC (log-rank test, P < 0.001; hazard ratio (HR) = 1.45, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.29 to 1.64). Adjusted HR for OS between MBC and FBC were revealed from propensity score matched-multivariable Cox proportional hazards models (HR =1.53, 95% CI = 1.35 to 1.73). Similar adjusted SMRs between MBC and FBC ((SMR = 1.98, 95% CI = 1.83,2.14) for FBC and (SMR = 2.07, 95%Cl = 1.88-2.28) for MBC) were observed. The nomogram was constructed for FBC, and predicted probabilities were generally good (C-index=0.71), whose area under curve is higher than TNM stage classification (0.74 vs 0.62). OS was significantly decreased among early MBC patients compared with FBC, but similar SMRs and its trends by age groups were observed between MBC and FBC except for young patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The endocrinology of male breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease but, as a result of epidemiological collaborations, there is now greater clarity concerning endocrine risk factors. The significant rise in global age-standardised mean BMI in men is likely to lead to increases in incidence of maturity-onset diabetes and MBC. The metabolic changes accompanying obesity decrease androgens and sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), thereby increasing available oestrogens. The higher rates of MBC in North and Equatorial Africa are largely due to liver damage from endemic bilharziasis and hepatitis B causing elevated oestradiol (E-2) levels from hepatic conversion of androgen. Klinefelter's syndrome (XXY) is associated with a 50-fold increase in incidence of MBC compared with XY males, and this is the most pronounced evidence for testicular malfunction amplifying risk. Delay in presentation means that up to 40% of cases have stage III or stage IV disease at diagnosis. No randomised controlled trials have been reported on endocrine treatment of advanced disease or adjuvant/neoadjuvant therapy following or preceding surgery. Tamoxifen is the most effective endocrine therapy, but side effects can lead to non-compliance in a substantial number of men. Aromatase inhibitors are less effective because they do not inhibit testicular oestrogen production. There is an urgent need for collaborative trials to provide an evidence base for the most effective endocrine and least toxic therapies for men with breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Germline deleterious mutations in genes other than BRCA2 are infrequent in male breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare cancer entity, with mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes accounting for similar to 10% of patients. Multiple-gene sequencing has already entered clinical practice for female breast cancer, whereas the performance of panel testing in MBC has not been studied extensively. Therefore, the aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical utility of panel testing for MBC, by the largest gene panel used so far, through investigation of patients deriving from a population with known founder effects.Genomic DNA from one hundred and two Greek MBC patients, unselected for age and family history, was used to prepare libraries which capture the entire coding regions of 94 cancer genes.Loss-of-function (LoF) mutations were found in 12.7% of the cases, distributed in six genes: BRCA2, ATM, BRCA1, CHEK2, PMS2, and FANCL. BRCA2 mutations were the most frequent, followed by ATM mutations, accounting for 6.9 and 2%, respectively, while mutations in other genes were detected in single cases. Age at diagnosis or family history was not predictive of mutation status. Beyond mutations in established breast cancer predisposing genes, LoF mutations in PMS2 and FANCL among MBC patients are reported here for the first time.Our findings, using the largest gene panel for MBC patients so far, indicate that BRCA testing should be the primary concern for MBC patients. Until sufficient evidence arises from larger studies, multiple-gene panels may be of limited benefit for MBC and their families, at least for MBC patients of specific descent.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A possible role of FANCM mutations in male breast cancer susceptibility: Results from a multicenter study in Italy	Introduction: Breast cancer (BC) in men is a rare disease, whose etiology appears to be associated with genetic factors. Inherited mutations in BRCA1/2 genes account for about 10-15% of all cases. FANCM, functionally linked to BRCA1/2, has been suggested as a novel BC susceptibility gene. Our aim was to test if FANCM germline mutations could further explain male BC (MBC) susceptibility.Methods: We screened the entire coding region of FANCM in 286 MBCs by a multi-gene panel analysis, and compared these data with available whole exome sequencing data from 415 men used as population controls. Moreover, we genotyped the two most frequent FANCM mutations (c.5101C>T and c.5791C>T) in 506 MBCs and 854 healthy male controls.Results: Two FANCM truncating mutations, the c.1432C>T (p.Arg478Ter) and c.1972C>T (p.Arg658Ter), were identified in two MBC cases (0.7%). When specifically considering cases at increased genetic risk for BC, FANCM mutation frequency raises up to 1%. One mutation, the c.2201_2202delCT (p.Ser734Terfs), was found among controls (0.24%). Mutation frequency in cases was higher than in controls, however this difference was not statistically significant. FANCM c.5101C>T was not present in any of the cases and controls analyzed, whereas FANCM c.5791C>T was found in two controls (0.23%).Conclusion: Rare FANCM truncating mutations, other than c.5101C>T and c.5791C>T, may have a role in MBC susceptibility. The inclusion of FANCM in gene panels for research purpose would allow for the identification of a higher number of mutation carriers, thus helping estimate BC risk associated with FANCM mutations. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Genetic and clinical characteristics in Japanese hereditary breast and ovarian cancer: first report after establishment of HBOC registration system in Japan	The hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) registration system of Japan was established by the Japanese HBOC Consortium. The first trial was registered in 2015 in four institutions to which some registration committee members belonged. We analyzed the information of 830 Japanese pedigrees, who underwent BRCA1/2 genetic testing, including mutation carriers with BRCA1 (N = 127) and BRCA2 (N = 115), and their families. The mutation-positive rate was 19.7%. Variants of uncertain significance were found in 6.5% of all individuals subjected to genetic testing for BRCA1/2. Compared to the United States, Japan had a higher mutation-positive rate in most categories, except for the groups with male breast cancer. Among the intrinsic subtypes of BRCA1-associated breast cancers, 75.8% were triple-negative. The incidence rate of contralateral breast cancer in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers was 0.99%/year. Among 240 mutation carriers, 26 and 62 patients underwent risk-reducing mastectomy (RRM) and risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy (RRSO), respectively; the respective frequencies of occult cancer were 7.1 and 3.2%. Metachronous breast cancer after RRM or peritoneal cancer after RRSO was not observed during the follow-up period. The nationwide registration system began last year and the system enables followup analysis in Japan.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Genetic and clinical characteristics in Japanese hereditary breast and ovarian cancer: first report after establishment of HBOC registration system in Japan (vol 63, pg 447, 2017)		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Copy number profiling of oncogenes in ductal carcinoma in situ of the male breast	Characterizing male breast cancer (BC) and unraveling male breast carcinogenesis is challenging because of the rarity of this disease. We investigated copy number status of 22 BC-related genes in 18 cases of pure ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and in 49 cases of invasive carcinoma (IC) with adjacent DCIS (DCIS-AIC) in males using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA). Results were compared to female BC and correlated with survival. Overall, copy number ratio and aberration frequency including all 22 genes showed no significant difference between the 3 groups. Individual unpaired analysis revealed a significantly higher MTDH copy number ratio in IC compared to DCIS-AIC and pure DCIS (P = 0.009 and P = 0.038, respectively). ADAM9 showed a significantly lower copy number aberration frequency in male BC, compared to female BC (P = 0.020). In DCIS-AIC, MTDH, CPD, CDC6 and TOP2A showed a lower frequency of copy number increase in males compared to females (P < 0.001 for all 4 genes). In IC, CPD gain and CCNE1 gain were independent predictors of poor overall survival. In conclusion, male DCIS and IC showed a similar copy number profile for 21 out of 22 interrogated BC-related genes, illustrating their clonal relation and the genetically advanced state of male DCIS. MTDH showed a higher copy number ratio in IC compared to adjacent and pure DCIS and may therefore play a role in male breast carcinogenesis. Differences were detected between male and female DCIS for 4 genes pointing to differences in breast carcinogenesis between the sexes.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Adolescent obesity and adult male breast cancer in a cohort of 1,382,093 men	Male breast cancer (MBC) accounts for 1% of all breast cancer. Adult obesity and tallness are risk factors for MBC, but the role of adolescent fatness is largely unknown. We aimed to assess the association between body mass index (BMI) in adolescence and the incidence of MBC in a large cohort of 16- to 19-year-old Israeli males. 1,382,093 Jewish Israeli males aged 16-19 who underwent anthropometric measurements, a general intelligence test (GIT) and other examinations during 1967-2011, were followed up to December 31, 2012 for MBC incidence. Cox proportional hazards models assessed the association between adolescent BMI (as WHO BMI categories and as age-specific CDC percentiles) and time to MBC diagnosis, adjusting for sociodemographic covariates. Of 100 MBC cases diagnosed during 29,386,233 person-years of follow-up, 97 were included in multivariable analyses. Compared to healthy BMI (18.5-24.9 kg/m(2)) and adjusted for year of birth, country of origin and GIT score, higher adolescent BMI was associated with higher MBC risk: hazard ratio (HR)=2.01 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.14-3.55, p=0.015) in overweight (25.0 <= BMI < 30.0 kg/m(2)) adolescents; and HR=4.97 (95%CI 2.14-11.53, p=0.0002) in obese (BMI >= 30.0 kg/m(2)) adolescents. When CDC age-specific BMI percentiles were assessed results were similar and statistically significant for obesity. In addition, low (vs. high) GIT score (HR=4.76, 95%CI 1.96-12.50, p=0.001) and European (vs. west-Asian) origin (HR=1.99, 95%CI 1.19-3.34, p=0.009) were independent predictors of MBC. Measured adolescent overweight and obesity are associated with increased risk of MBC, suggesting a modifiable risk factor potentially allowing for early intervention. The novel association with cognitive function should be further explored.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Characterizing steroid hormone receptor chromatin binding landscapes in male and female breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is rare and poorly characterized. Like the female counterpart, most MBCs are hormonally driven, but relapse after hormonal treatment is also noted. The panhormonal action of steroid hormonal receptors, including estrogen receptor alpha (ER alpha), androgen receptor (AR), progesterone receptor (PR), and glucocorticoid receptor (GR) in this understudied tumor type remains wholly unexamined. This study reveals genomic cross-talk of steroid hormone receptor action and interplay in human tumors, here in the context of MBC, in relation to the female disease and patient outcome. Here we report the characterization of human breast tumors of both genders for cistromic make-up of hormonal regulation in human tumors, revealing genome-wide chromatin binding landscapes of ER alpha, AR, PR, GR, FOXA1, and GATA3 and enhancer-enriched histone mark H3K4me1. We integrate these data with transcriptomics to reveal gender-selective and genomic location-specific hormone receptor actions, which associate with survival in MBC patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic value of PD-L1 expression in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Men with advanced breast cancer (BC): Initial phase (Ph) 2 clinical activity of seviteronel, a selective CYP17-lyase and androgen receptor (AR) inhibitor		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Clinical and biological characterization of male breast cancer (BC) EORTC 10085/TBCRC 029/BOOG 2013-02/BIG 2-07: Baseline results from the prospective registry		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The role of multi-gene hereditary cancer panels in male patients with breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male-GBG54: A prospective, randomised multi-centre phase II study evaluating endocrine treatment with either tamoxifen plus /- gonadotropin releasing hormone analogue (GnRHa) or an aromatase inhibitor plus GnRHa in male breast cancer patients		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Quality of life (QoL) in male breast cancer (BC): Prospective study of the EORTC10085/TBCRC029/BIG2-07/NABCG International male BC program		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Obesity and adipose inflammation in men with breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: correlation between immunohistochemical subtyping and PAM50 intrinsic subtypes, and the subsequent clinical outcomes	Male breast cancer is a rare disease that is still poorly understood. It is mainly classified by immunohistochemistry as a luminal disease. In this study, we assess for the first time the correlation between molecular subtypes based on a validated six-marker immunohistochemical panel and PAM50 signature in male breast cancer, and the subsequent clinical outcome of these different subtypes. We collected 67 surgical specimens of invasive male breast cancer from four different Spanish pathology laboratories. Immunohistochemical staining for the six-marker panel was performed on tissue microarrays. PAM50 subtypes were determined in a research-use-only nCounter Analysis System. We explored the association of immunohistochemical and PAM50 subtypes. Overall survival and disease-free survival were analyzed in the different subtypes of each classification. The distribution of tumor molecular subtypes according PAM50 was: 60% luminal B, 30% luminal A and 10% human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (Her2) enriched. Only one Her2-enriched tumor was also positive by immunohistochemistry and was treated with trastuzumab. None of the tumors were basal-like. Using immunohistochemical surrogates, 51% of the tumors were luminal B, 44% luminal A, 4% triple-negative and 1% Her2-positive. The clinicopathological characteristics did not differ significantly between immunohistochemical and PAM50 subtypes. We found a significant worse overall survival in Her2-enriched compared with luminal tumors. Male breast cancer seems to be mainly a genomic luminal disease with a predominance of the luminal B subtype. In addition, we found a proportion of patients with Her2-negative by immunohistochemistry but Her2-enriched profile by PAM50 tumors with a worse outcome compared with luminal subtypes that may benefit from anti-Her2 therapies.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Survival benefit of tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitor in male and female breast cancer	Background Our goal was to compare the survival advantage of tamoxifen (TAM) and aromatase inhibitor (AI) in female (FBC) and male breast cancer (MBC).Patients and methods We performed a retrospective study of 2785 FBC and 257 MBC patients treated with hormonal therapy.Results The median follow-up was 106 months (range 3-151 months) and 42 months (range 2-115 months) for FBC and MBC, respectively. The patients were divided into two groups according to the hormonal therapy used: TAM-treated and AI-treated. MBC was characterized by older age, advanced tumor stage, and higher rate of lymph node metastases, in comparison with FBC. Matching analysis was performed using six prognostic criteria: patient age, tumor stage, tumor grade, lymph node status, human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2) status, and administration of chemotherapy. The female and male patients were matched 2:1. In this analysis, 316 women and 158 men treated with TAM, and 60 women and 30 men treated with AI, were included. The overall survival (OS) was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method and was compared between FBC and MBC. TAM-treated FBC and MBC patients had similar 5-year OS, 85.1 and 89.2%, respectively (p = 0.972). Notably, FBC patients treated with AI had significantly greater 5-year OS (85.0%) in comparison with AI-treated MBC patients (5-year OS of 73.3%; p = 0.028).Conclusions The OS of TAM-treated patients with MBC was similar to the OS of TAM-treated FBC patients, whereas AI treatment is associated with poorer survival of MBC patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Adjuvant Endocrine Therapy	The use of hormonal therapy in breast cancer has improved the overall outcome for patients with early-stage hormone receptor-positive disease. The choice of hormone therapy is related to multiple factors, including menopausal state, patient preference, and potential side effects. Molecular profiling has allowed therapy to be tailored for an individual patient to some extent. However, further molecular studies are needed to individualize the choice and length of adjuvant hormone therapy. Ongoing studies are evaluating the role of additional targeted therapies, such as CDK4/6 inhibitors, to further improve outcome for patients with early-stage hormone receptor-positive breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Occupational exposure to organic solvents and risk of male breast cancer: a European multicenter case-control study	Objectives The etiology of male breast cancer (MBC) is largely unknown but a causal role of exposure to organic solvents has been suggested. Previous studies on occupational risk factors of breast cancer were often restricted to women who are frequently exposed to lower levels and at a lower frequency than men. We investigated the association between MBC and occupational exposure to petroleum and oxygenated and chlorinated solvents in a multicenter case-control study of rare cancers in Europe.Methods The study included 104 MBC cases and 1901 controls. Detailed lifetime work history was obtained during interviews, together with sociodemographic characteristics, medical history and lifestyle factors. Occupational exposures to solvents were estimated from a job-exposure matrix. Odds ratios (OR) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated using unconditional logistic regression models.Results Lifetime cumulative exposure to trichloroethylene >23.9 ppm years was associated with an increased MBC risk, compared to non-exposure [OR (95% CI): 2.1 (1.2-4.0); P trend <0.01). This increase in risk persisted when only exposures that occurred >= 10 years before diagnosis were considered. In addition, a possible role for benzene and ethylene glycol in MBC risk was suggested, but no exposure-response trend was observed.Conclusions These findings add to the evidence of an increased risk of breast cancer among men professionally exposed to trichloroethylene and possibly to benzene or ethylene glycol. Further studies should be conducted in populations with high level of exposure to confirm our results.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Health-related quality of life in different states of breast cancer - comparing different instruments	Background: The prognosis of breast cancer has improved significantly during the last few decades increasing the interest in health-related quality of life (HRQoL). The aim of this study was to compare the HRQoL scores produced by different instruments and to shed light on their validity in various states of breast cancer by studying the association of cancer-related symptoms with HRQoL.Material and methods: An observational, cross-sectional study of breast cancer patients treated in the Helsinki and Uusimaa Hospital District from September 2009 to April 2011. A total of 840 patients completed three HRQoL questionnaires: the EQ-5D-3L (including VAS), 15D and EORTC QLQ-30 and a questionnaire concerning sociodemographic factors. Patients were divided into five mutually exclusive groups: primary treatment (n=118), recovery (6-18 months from diagnosis) (n=150), remission (>18 months) (n=382), metastatic disease (n=176) and palliative care (n=14). The association of HRQoL with sociodemographic and clinical factors and cancer-related symptoms, screened by the EORTC QLQ-30, was studied by multivariate modeling using stepwise linear regression analysis.Results: HRQoL scores were the best at the time closest to diagnosis and deteriorated with disease progression. The EQ-5D had a pronounced ceiling effect with 40.8% of the respondents scoring 1 (perfect health) compared to 6% for the 15D and 5.6% for VAS. In regression analyses, pain, fatigue and financial difficulties were the most important predictors of lower HRQoL. The 15D showed better discriminatory power and content validity. The EORTC QLQ-C30 functioning deteriorated in advanced states of the disease with physical, social and role functioning being the most affected. Insomnia, fatigue and pain were the most commonly reported symptoms in all groups.Conclusions: Different HRQoL instruments produce notably different HRQoL scores. The EQ-5D has a pronounced ceiling effect. Pain and fatigue are the most common symptoms associated with poor HRQoL in all disease states.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	33rd German Cancer Congress, Berlin, GERMANY, February 21 -24, 2018	This meeting, which focuses on oncology research and treatment, contains approximately 509 abstracts, all written in English. Topics include results from the PASSOS heart study, reduced invasivity after knock-down of S100A4 and CYR61 in mesenchymal transformed MCF-7-EMT breast cancer cells, screening-relevant age treshold of 70 years and older is a stronger determinant for the choice of adjuvant treatment in breast cancer patients than tumor biology, expression of androgen-receptors in male breast cancer, combination of conventional prognostic factors and molecular subtypes for selecting the timing of systemic therapy in early operable breast cancer, role of integrin-beta-3 in breast cancer skeletal metastasis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Should Adjuvant Radiation Therapy Be Systematically Proposed for Male Breast Cancer? A Systematic Review	Background: Guidelines for radiotherapy in male breast cancer (MBC) are lacking. Some extrapolate the results from female breast cancer trials, while others advocate systematic adjuvant irradiation. We evaluated clinical practices and outcomes with respect to radiation therapy in MBC treated with locoregional irradiation in the adjuvant setting using a systematic literature review. Material and Methods: We included studies with data about adjuvant radiotherapy published between 1984 and 2017 and including at least 40 patients. Results: We found 29 retrospective series, 10,065 men were diagnosed with breast cancer; 3-100% (mean=54%) received adjuvant radiotherapy. Tumor size and nodal involvement were the strongest prognostic factors. Approximatively half of all cases had nodal metastases. Radiation therapy improved locoregional control in six series, overall survival in three and distant metastasis-free survival in one. Conclusion: MBC is diagnosed at a highly advanced stage and may be linked with poorer outcomes. Adjuvant radiation therapy must, at least, be proposed to men with positive nodes. Despite the large number of cases gathered here, arguments for radiotherapy in other prognostic subgroups (especially in pN0) may exist but are not well supported.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Performance of BRCA1/2 mutation prediction models in male breast cancer patients	To establish whether existing mutation prediction models can identify which male breast cancer (MBC) patients should be offered BRCA1 and BRCA2 diagnostic DNA screening, we compared the performance of BOADICEA (Breast and Ovarian Analysis of Disease Incidence and Carrier Estimation Algorithm), BRCAPRO (BRCA probability) and the Myriad prevalence table (Myriad). These models were evaluated using the family data of 307 Dutch MBC probands tested for BRCA1/2, 58 (19%) of whom were carriers. We compared the numbers of observed vs predicted carriers and assessed the Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) Curve (AUC) for each model. BOADICEA predicted the total number of BRCA1/2 mutation carriers quite accurately (observed/predicted ratio: 0.94). When a cut-off of 10% and 20% prior probability was used, BRCAPRO showed a non-significant better performance (observed/predicted ratio BOADICEA: 0.81, 95% confidence interval [CI]: [0.60-1.09] and 0.79, 95% CI: [0.57-1.09], vs. BRCAPRO: 1.02, 95% CI: [0.75-1.38] and 0.94, 95% CI: [0.68-1.31], respectively). Myriad underestimated the number of carriers in up to 69% of the cases. BRCAPRO showed a non-significant, higher AUC than BOADICEA (0.798 vs 0.776). Myriad showed a significantly lower AUC (0.671). BRCAPRO and BOADICEA can efficiently identify MBC patients as BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. Besides their general applicability, these tools will be of particular value in countries with limited healthcare resources.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer and mantle cell lymphoma in a single patient A case report and literature review	Rationale: Although still relatively rare, multiple primary malignant neoplasms (MPMNs) have been increasingly reported in recent years.Patient concerns and diagnoses: A 65-year-old man was referred to our hospital for a painless, incidental left axillary lump. Ultrasound showed enlarged left axillary lymph nodes. An excisional biopsy was conducted on 3 lymph nodes. The pathological diagnosis was determined to be metastatic adenocarcinoma and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) in the lymph nodes. Further physical examination of the patient yielded a 1.5-cm hard, left subareolar mass.Interventions and outcomes: The patient underwent modified radical mastectomy. The diagnosis was grade II invasive ductal carcinoma (stage IIA). The axillary lymph node showed MCL (stage I, group A), but not metastatic ductal carcinoma. The patient received chemotherapy, including 6 courses of CHOP (A chemotherapy protocol consists of cyclophosphamide 1.2g day 1, doxorubicin 80 mg day 1, vindesine 4 mg day1, and prednisone 90 mg from day 1 to 5) for lymphoma and breast cancer. The patient was also administered endocrine therapy. After a 54-month follow-up, the patient was well with no evidence of disease.Lessons: MPMNs are easily misdiagnosed as a primary and metastatic tumor, leading to delayed or erroneous treatment. Male breast cancer in a patient with MCL is rare. Early diagnosis and proper therapy are necessary for an optimal prognosis. Further studies are required to define the mechanisms and risk factors of MPMNs.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Familial associations of male breast cancer with other cancers	Male breast cancer is associated with female breast cancer in families but whether male breast cancer clusters with other discordant cancers has not been studied. As concordant male breast cancers are utterly rare, discordant associations of male breast cancer with other cancers may reveal genetic and possible environmental risk factors contributing to male breast cancer susceptibility.We calculated relative risks (RRs) for male breast cancer in families with discordant cancers, and conversely, for discordant cancers in families of male breast cancer patients, based on 15.7 million individuals in the Swedish Family-Cancer Database.Among 1428 male breast cancer patients, 16.2% had a female relative diagnosed with breast cancer. Ovarian and female anal cancers showed the strongest associations with male breast cancer (p value < 0.0005). The other significant associations included colorectal, small intestinal, and thyroid cancers, cancer of unknown primary and non-Hodgkin lymphoma but these were each based on a single positive association with male breast cancer. The RRs for male breast cancer were increased in families in which multiple patients were diagnosed with diverse cancers, reaching an RR of 2.58 when three or more family members were affected.The results suggest that male breast cancer shares susceptibility with a number of other cancers but confirmation is needed in other datasets.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Increased risk of arterial thromboembolism in older men with breast cancer	Male breast cancer is a rare and understudied disease predominantly affecting men over age 60. Risk of arterial thromboembolic events (ATE) in men increases with age. We examined ATE risk following primary breast cancer diagnosis in elderly men.Men with primary breast cancer diagnoses from 2002 to 2011 were identified using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER)-Medicare-linked database. Cases were individually matched by age, sex, race, registry, and comorbidities with controls without cancer using SEER-Medicare's 5% noncancer sample. Medicare claims were used to identify ATE, defined as myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke. Cumulative incidence of ATE was calculated using competing risk methodology, with death considered a competing event. Cox proportional hazards analysis was used to compare rates of ATE among cases and controls.Three months following primary breast cancer diagnosis, ATE risk in the cohort of 881 men was 80% higher than matched controls (hazard ratio 1.8; 95% confidence interval 1.0-3.2). Six months post-cancer diagnosis, 5.7% of cases had experienced ATE, whereas only 3.5% of controls had (HR 1.6; 95% CI 1.0-2.6). ATE risk remained elevated 12 months post-cancer diagnosis. Among cases, risk of death was threefold higher in men who developed ATE.We provide population-based evidence that male breast cancer patients have a substantially elevated risk of ATE in the first year following a cancer diagnosis compared with matched controls. Care providers should consider this heightened risk when evaluating cardiovascular health in men with a recent breast cancer diagnosis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Locoregional Management of Clinically Node-Negative Male Breast Cancer: An Analysis of a Clinical Oncology Database.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathological characteristics and survival outcomes of male breast cancer according to race: A SEER population-based study	To investigate the clinicopathological characteristics and survival outcomes of breast cancer in the male population, 8,607 cases of patients were identified in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database, including white males (n = 7122), black males (n = 1111), and other males (American Indian/AK Native, Asian/Pacific Islander) (n = 374). Black male breast cancer patients were more likely to be in stages II-IV and have more advanced tumors. The rate of lymph node (LN) involvement at diagnosis was higher in black men than in whites and others. The ER-and PR-positive rates were lower in black men than in whites and others. The distant metastasis rate was higher in blacks than in whites and others. Furthermore, the overall survival (OR) rates and breast cancer-specific survival rates were significantly poorer in blacks than in whites and others (X-2 = 29.974, P < 0.001; X-2 = 7.285, P = 0.026, respectively). In a multivariate analysis, the results showed that race could also be a prognostic indicator (P < 0.001). Moreover, significant differences were also observed in OS among 1: 1: 1 matched white, black, and other groups (P < 0.001). Differences in outcomes may be partially explained by differences in tumor grades, LN status, and ER and PR status between the 3 groups. This study might provide insights into a better understanding of male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	BRCA1/2 Testing and/or Further Genetic Assessment Scoring Sheet: A Useful Clinical Tool		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic value of CD8+tumour infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs) in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic significance of Forkhead box M1 expression in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	X-chromosome aneusomy and androgen receptor status in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Metastases from invasive micropapillary urothelial carcinoma (IPUC) mimicking a unilateral gynecomastia: Case report		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Pathological characterisation of male breast cancer: Results of the EORTC 10085/TBCRC/BIG/NABCG International Male Breast Cancer Program	Aim: Several prognostic histological features have been established in female breast cancer (BC), but it is unknown whether these can be extrapolated to male BC patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic value of several histological features in a large series of male BC.Methods: Central pathology review was performed for 1483 male BCs collected through part 1 of the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) International Male BC Program. Pathology review included histological subtype, grade, mitotic activity index (MAI), presence of a fibrotic focus and density of tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs). These features were correlated with clinical outcome. The relationship between these features and surrogate molecular subtypes using immunohistochemistry was also assessed.Results: Median follow-up for overall survival (OS) was 7.1 years. Overall histological grade was not significantly associated with OS (p = 0.129). MAI, the presence of a fibrotic focus and a low TIL density however were correlated with unfavourable OS (p = 0.023, p = 0.004 and p = 0.011, respectively). BC subtype correlated with TIL density (p = 0.015), as we observed a higher density for human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2) positive BC compared to luminal HER2-negative subtype. No association was observed between subtype and fibrotic focus.Conclusions: Histologic grade was not significantly correlated with clinical outcome in this series, unlike what is seen in female patients. These results contribute to our understanding of male BC and indicate the importance of further research on the optimisation of risk stratification and treatment decisions for male BC patients. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Analysis of the ATR-Chk1 and ATM-Chk2 pathways in male breast cancer revealed the prognostic significance of ATR expression	The ATR-Chk1 and ATM-Chk2 pathways are central in DNA damage repair (DDR) and their over-activation may confer aggressive molecular features, being an adaptive response to endogenous DNA damage and oncogene-induced replication stress. Herein we investigated the ATR-Chk1 and ATM-Chk2 signalings in male breast cancer (MBC). The expression of DDR kinases (pATR, pATM, pChk1, pChk2, and pWee1) and DNA damage markers (pRPA32 and gamma-H2AX) was evaluated by immunohistochemistry in 289 MBC samples to assess their association. Survival analyses were carried out in 112 patients. Survival curves were estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method and compared by log-rank test. Cox proportional regression models were generated to identify variables impacting survival outcomes. The expression of pATR conferred poorer survival outcomes (log rank p = 0.013, p = 0.007 and p = 0.010 for overall, 15- and 10-year survival, respectively). Multivariate Cox models of 10-year survival and overall indicated that pATR expression, alone or combined with pChk2, was an independent predictor of adverse outcomes (10-year survival: pATR: HR 2.74, 95% CI: 1.23-6.10; pATR/pChk2: HR 2.92, 95% CI: 1.35-6.33; overall survival: pATR: HR 2.58, 95% CI: 1.20-5.53; pATR/pChk2: HR 2.89, 95% CI: 1.376.12). Overall, the ATR/ATM-initiated molecular cascade seems to be active in a fraction of MBC patients and may represent a negative prognostic factor.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer: Epidemiology and Risk Factors	Male breast cancer is a rare malignancy that accounts for less than 1% of all cancers in men and less than 1% of all breast cancers. But the incidence is rising and in some patient groups reaching 15% over the course of their lives. The major risk factors for the development of male breast cancer include advancing age, hormonal imbalance, radiation exposure, and a family history of breast cancer. Regarding the latter, incidence can be linked to mutations in high- or low-penetrance genes. The most relevant risk factor for the development of male breast cancer is a mutation in the BRCA2 gene. Most cases present late because of a lack of awareness of the existence of such a malignancy in males and ignorance of the related risk factors. Additionally, males with breast cancer are at special risk for developing a second cancer. This in depth review highlights the epidemiology and risk factors for the development of male breast cancer. (C) 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Association between AXL, Hippo Transducers, and Survival Outcomes in Male Breast Cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is an uncommon malignancy. We have previously reported that the expression of the Hippo transducers TAZ/YAP and their target CTGF was associated with inferior survival in MBC patients. Preclinical evidence demonstrated that Axl is a transcriptional target of TAZ/YAP. Thus, we herein assessed AXL expression to further investigate the significance of active TAZ/YAP-driven transcription in MBC. For this study, 255 MBC samples represented in tissue microarrays were screened for AXL expression, and 116 patients were included. The association between categorical variables was verified by the Pearson's Chi-squared test of independence (2-tailed) or the Fisher Exact test. The relationship between continuous variables was tested with the Pearson's correlation coefficient. The Kaplan-Meier method was used for estimating survival curves, which were compared by log-rank test. Factors potentially impacting 10-year and overall survival were verified in Cox proportional regression models. AXL was positively associated with the TAZ/CTGF and YAP/CTGF phenotypes (P=0.001 and P=0.002, respectively). Patients with TAZ/CTGF/AXL- or YAP/CTGF/AXL-expressing tumors had inferior survival compared with non-triple-positive patients (log rank P=0.042 and P=0.048, respectively). The variables TAZ/CTGF/AXL and YAP/CTGF/AXL were adverse factors for 10-year survival in the multivariate Cox models (HR 2.31, 95%CI:1.02-5.22, P=0.045, and HR 2.27, 95%CI:1.00-5.13, P=0.050). Nearly comparable results were obtained from multivariate analyses of overall survival. The expression pattern of AXL corroborates the idea of the detrimental role of TAZ/YAP activation in MBC. Overall, Hippo-linked biomarkers deserve increased attention in this rare disease. J. Cell. Physiol. 232: 2246-2252, 2017. (c) 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Assessment of the prognostic and discriminating value of the novel bioscore system for breast cancer; a SEER database analysis	Background An updated bioscore has been proposed within the context of the 8th edition American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) staging system for breast cancer. This study seeks to validate the discriminating value of this bioscore among non-metastatic breast cancer patients registered within the surveillance, epidemiology, and end results (SEER) database.Methods Through SEER*Stat program, SEER database (2010-2013) was accessed and bioscore was formulated for each patient. Overall and cancer-specific survival analyses according to both bioscore and AJCC pathological stages were conducted through Kaplan-Meier analysis/log-rank testing, and multivariate analysis was conducted through a Cox proportional model.Results A total of 181030 patients with non-metastatic, surgically treated breast cancer were identified in the period from 2010 to 2013. For overall and cancer-specific survival assessment according to the bioscore system, P values for pairwise comparisons among different score points were significant (P < 0.0001) except for the comparison between score 0 and score 1. For cancer-specific survival assessment according to the AJCC stages, P values for pairwise comparisons among different stages were significant (P < 0.0001) except for the comparison between stages IIIB and IIIC. For overall survival assessment according to the AJCC stages, P values for pairwise comparisons among different stages were significant (P < 0.001) except for the comparison between stages IA and IB. In a multivariate analysis, the following factors were associated with better cancer-specific survival (earlier stage disease, ER positivity, PR positivity, Her2 neu positivity, and nuclear grade) (P < 0.0001).Conclusion The current analysis confirms the prognostic utility of the bioscore system and suggests it may be incorporated into decision-making algorithms for non-metastatic breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Primary Peritoneal Serous Carcinoma in Men: A Rare and Non-BRCA-associated Entity	Background: Primary peritoneal serous carcinoma (PPSC) is a rare neoplasm. The paucity of reported cases among men may provide insight to the cell of origin of PPSC. Materials and Methods: A search for the ICD 0-3 code of PPSC (C48.2) in the following datasets: the Israeli National Cancer registry (INCR), the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database in the USA, Israeli male BRCA carriers, male high-risk and BRCA carriers in a USA study, and the Italian Study on Male Breast Cancer (MBC) were performed. Results: In the INCR dataset, 220 entries for C48.2 code were noted, with only one male (male: female ratio=0.0045). In the SEER dataset for histology codes of papillary/serous/adenocarcinoma, 2,673 cases were recorded, with five males (male: female ratio=0.0018). None of the recorded US or Italian male BRCA carriers or MBC, or Israeli male BRCA carriers was diagnosed with PPSC. Conclusion: PPSC is a rare neoplasm, seemingly not associated with BRCA mutations in men, and fallopian tube epithelial cell implants may contribute to its development.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A Case-Matched Gender Comparison Transcriptomic Screen Identifies eIF4E and eIF5 as Potential Prognostic Markers in Male Breast Cancer	Purpose: Breast cancer affects both genders, but is understudied in men. Although still rare, male breast cancer (MBC) is being diagnosed more frequently. Treatments are wholly informed by clinical studies conducted in women, based on assumptions that underlying biology is similar.Experimental Design: A transcriptomic investigation of male and female breast cancer was performed, confirming transcriptomic data in silico. Biomarkers were immunohistochemically assessed in 697 MBCs (n = 477, training; n = 220, validation set) and quantified in pre- and posttreatment samples from an MBC patient receiving everolimus and PI3K/mTOR inhibitor.Results: Gender-specific gene expression patterns were identified. eIF transcripts were upregulated in MBC. eIF4E and eIF5 were negatively prognostic for overall survival alone (log-rank P = 0.013; HR = 1.77, 1.12-2.8 and P = 0.035; HR = 1.68, 1.03-2.74, respectively), or when coexpressed (P = 0.01; HR = 2.66, 1.26-5.63), confirmed in the validation set. This remained upon multivariate Cox regression analysis [ eIF4E P = 0.016; HR = 2.38 (1.18-4.8), eIF5 P = 0.022; HR = 2.55 (1.14-5.7); coexpression P = 0.001; HR = 7.04 (2.22-22.26)]. Marked reduction in eIF4E and eIF5 expression was seen post BEZ235/everolimus, with extended survival.Conclusions: Translational initiation pathway inhibition could be of clinical utility in MBC patients overexpressing eIF4E and eIF5. With mTOR inhibitors that target this pathway now in the clinic, these biomarkers may represent new targets for therapeutic intervention, although further independent validation is required. (C) 2016 AACR.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Scientometric profile of global male breast cancer research		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Overexpression of FOXM1 Is a Potential Prognostic Marker in Male Breast Cancer	Background: Several studies have outlined biological differences between female and male breast cancer (MBC) and concluded that MBC should be considered as an entirely separate disease. Whether FOXM1 has any indication for prognosis in MBC patients remains unknown. We sought to examine the expression levels of FOXM1 in MBC and to identify the relationship between FOXM1 expression and patient survival. Patients and Methods: FOXM1 expression was evaluated in a total of 130 MBC specimens. Results: FOXM1 was overexpressed in 37% of the MBC samples. FOXM1 overexpression was significantly associated with tumor size (p = 0.045), histological grade (p = 0.048), lymph node metastasis (p = 0.012), Ki-67 proliferation index (p = 0.016), and molecular subtypes (p < 0.001). Multivariate analyses indicated that FOXM1 was an independent prognostic factor for overall survival in MBC patients (p < 0.001, hazard ratio = 0.69 (0.43-0.96)). Conclusions: Overexpression of FOXM1 was associated with well-established markers of poor prognosis; thus FOXM1 may represent a potential novel prognostic marker for MBC. (C) 2017 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Characterisation of male breast cancer: a descriptive biomarker study from a large patient series	Male breast cancer (MBC) is rare. We assembled 446 MBCs on tissue microarrays and assessed clinicopathological information, together with data from 15 published studies, totalling 1984 cases. By immunohistochemistry we investigated 14 biomarkers (ER alpha, ER beta 1, ER beta 2, ER beta 5, PR, AR, Bcl-2, HER2, p53, E-cadherin, Ki67, survivin, prolactin, FOXA1) for survival impact. The main histological subtype in our cohort and combined analyses was ductal (81%, 83%), grade 2; (40%, 44%), respectively. Cases were predominantly ERa (84%, 82%) and PR positive (74%, 71%), respectively, with HER2 expression being infrequent (2%, 10%), respectively. In our cohort, advanced age (>67) was the strongest predictor of overall (OS) and disease free survival (DFS) (p = 0.00001; p = 0.01, respectively). Node positivity negatively impacted DFS (p = 0.04). FOXA1 p = 0.005) and AR p = 0.009) were both positively prognostic for DFS, remaining upon multivariate analysis. Network analysis showed ERa, AR and FOXA1 significantly correlated. In summary, the principle phenotype of MBC was luminal A, ductal, grade 2. In ER alpha+ MBC, only AR had prognostic significance, suggesting AR blockade could be employed therapeutically.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer tumors - molecular, biological, clinical and morphological features		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Clinicoepidemiological study of breast cancer patients at Clinical Oncology Department Ain Shams University: five years retrospective study		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer-infusing a little blue into the sea of pink		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Low Frequency of HER2-Positive Male Breast Cancers		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	IgG4-Related Sclerosing Disease of the Breast in a Male Patient		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Recent declines in cancer incidence: related to the Great Recession?	In recent years, cancer case counts in the U.S. underwent a large, rapid decline-an unexpected change given population growth for older persons at highest cancer risk. As these declines coincided with the Great Recession, we examined whether they were related to economic conditions.Using California Cancer Registry data from California's 30 most populous counties, we analyzed trends in cancer incidence during pre-recession (1996-2007) and recession/recovery (2008-2012) periods for all cancers combined and the ten most common sites. We evaluated the recession's association with rates using a multifactorial index that measured recession impact, and modeled associations between case counts and county-level unemployment rates using Poisson regression.Yearly cancer incidence rate declines were greater during the recession/recovery (3.3% among males, 1.4% among females) than before (0.7 and 0.5%, respectively), particularly for prostate, lung, and colorectal cancers. Lower case counts, especially for prostate and liver cancer among males and breast cancer, melanoma, and ovarian cancer among females, were associated with higher unemployment rates, irrespective of time period, but independent of secular effects. The associations for melanoma translated up to a 3.6% decrease in cases with each 1% increase in unemployment. Incidence declines were not greater in counties with higher recession impact index.Although recent declines in incidence of certain cancers are not differentially impacted by economic conditions related to the Great Recession relative to pre-recession conditions, the large recent absolute declines in the case counts of some cancer may be attributable to the large declines in unemployment in the recessionary period. This may occur through decreased engagement in preventive health behaviors, particularly for clinically less urgent cancers. Continued monitoring of trends is important to detect any rises in incidence rates as deferred diagnoses come to clinical attention.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Retesting BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation negative male breast cancer patients using next generation sequencing technologies		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Red Bone Marrow and Male Breast Doses for a Cohort of Atomic Veterans	Both red bone marrow and male breast doses with associated uncertainty have been reconstructed for a 1,982-person subset of a cohort of 114, 270 military personnel (referred to as "atomic veterans'') who participated in U.S. atmospheric nuclear weapons testing from 1945 to 1962. The methods used to calculate these doses and corresponding uncertainty have been reported in detail by Till et al. in an earlier publication. In this current article we report the final results of those calculations. These doses are being used in a case-cohort design epidemiological investigation of leukemia and male breast cancer. This cohort of atomic veterans is one component in a broader-scope study of approximately one million U.S. persons designed to investigate risk from chronic low-dose radiation exposure. Doses to the atomic veterans in this sub-cohort were relatively low, with approximately two-thirds receiving red bone marrow doses <5 mGy and only four individuals receiving a red bone marrow dose >50 mGy. The average red bone marrow dose for members of the sub-cohort was 5.9 mGy. Doses to male breast were approximately 20% higher than red bone marrow doses. The uncertainty in the estimated doses was relatively low, considering relevant personnel dosimetry was available for only about 25% of the subjects, and most of the doses were reconstructed from film badges worn by co-workers or from the individual's military record and military unit activities. The average coefficient of variation for the individual dose estimates was approximately 0.5, comparable to the uncertainty in doses estimated for the Japanese A-bomb survivors. Although the reconstructed red bone marrow doses were about 36% lower on average than the conservative doses previously estimated by the military for compensation, the overall correlation was quite good, suggesting that the estimates of doses from external exposure by the military for all similar to 115,000 cohort members could be adjusted appropriately and used in further epidemiological analyses. (C) 2017 by Radiation Research Society	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Whole-Exome Sequencing and Targeted Gene Sequencing Provide Insights Into the Role of PALB2 as a Male Breast Cancer Susceptibility Gene	BACKGROUND: Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease whose etiology appears to be largely associated with genetic factors. BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations account for about 10% of all MBC cases. Thus, a fraction of MBC cases are expected to be due to genetic factors not yet identified. To further explain the genetic susceptibility for MBC, whole-exome sequencing (WES) and targeted gene sequencing were applied to high-risk, BRCA1/2 mutation-negative MBC cases. METHODS: Germ-line DNA of 1 male and 2 female BRCA1/2 mutation-negative breast cancer (BC) cases from a pedigree showing a first-degree family history of MBC was analyzed with WES. Targeted gene sequencing for the validation of WES results was performed for 48 high-risk, BRCA1/2 mutation-negative MBC cases from an Italian multicenter study of MBC. A case-control series of 433 BRCA1/2 mutation-negative MBC and female breast cancer (FBC) cases and 849 male and female controls was included in the study. RESULTS: WES in the family identified the partner and localizer of BRCA2 (PALB2) c. 419delA truncating mutation carried by the proband, her father, and her paternal uncle (all affected with BC) and the N-acetyltransferase 1 (NAT1) c.97C>T nonsense mutation carried by the proband's maternal aunt. Targeted PALB2 sequencing detected the c.1984A>T nonsense mutation in 1 of the 48 BRCA1/2 mutation-negative MBC cases. NAT1 c.97C>T was not found in the case-control series. CONCLUSIONS: These results add strength to the evidence showing that PALB2 is involved in BC risk for both sexes and indicate that consideration should be given to clinical testing of PALB2 for BRCA1/2 mutation-negative families with multiple MBC and FBC cases. (C) 2016 American Cancer Society.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	CHARACTARIZING THE OBESITY AND BREAST CANCER RELATIONSHIP IN MEN		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Molecular subtypes of male breast cancer by immunohistochemistry	Male breast cancer is a rare disease, accounting for less than 1% of all breast cancer cases worldwide. Compared to female breast cancer, the incidence of male breast cancer has risen in recent years, and the relationship between molecular subtype and clinical behavior has rarely been studied. In this study, we examined the molecular subtypes of male breast cancers based on the expression profile of immunomarkers and their association with clinicopathological features. A total of 98 male breast carcinoma patients were investigated retrospectively using immunostaining for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), HER2, Ki-67, and P53. Results were interpreted based on the molecular subtype classification of the 13th St Gallen International Expert Consensus (2013). HER2 expression that was 2+ or 3+ was also evaluated by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) for further validation. The luminal subtype A was the most common in all patients (83.7%, 82/98), followed by the luminal subtype B (16.3%, 16/98). HER-2 subtype and basal-like subtype were not detected. Male breast cancers were classified into luminal subtype A and luminal subtype B, and the HER-2 over-expressing and basal-like subtypes were not found in this study.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Locoregional treatment and overall survival of men with T1a,b,cN0M0 breast cancer: A population-based study	Background: Male breast cancer (MaBC) is an understudied disease; information about locoregional treatment and outcomes in patients with early stage is unknown. We aimed to analyse patient characteristics, locoregional treatment and overall survival (OS) of T1a,b,cN0M0 male breast cancer.Methods: We evaluated men with T1a, b, cN0M0 breast cancer reported to Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program from 1988 to 2012. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to determine the effect of each variable on OS.Results: We included 1263 patients. Median age was 66 years (range 27-103). Median follow-up was 62 months (range 1-294). OS at 5 and 10 years were 85.1% and 66.5%, respectively. Distribution according to tumour sub-stage was: T1a 6.5%, T1b 20.7% and T1c 72.8%. Mastectomy was performed in >74% of patients of each tumour size group and overall 44.1% had >5 lymph nodes examined (LNE). Univariate analysis showed that patients with T1c, no surgery and 0 LNE had worse prognosis. In multivariate analysis, older age (hazard ratio [HR] 11.09), grade 3/4 tumours (HR 1.7), no surgery (HR 3.3), 0 LNE (HR 5.1) and unmarried patients (HR 1.7) had significantly shorter OS. There were no differences in OS between breast conservation versus mastectomy and 1-5 LNE versus >5 LNE.Conclusion: Men with early breast cancer have a favourable OS. However, older age, higher grade, no breast surgery, no LNE and unmarried status emerged as poor prognostic characteristics. Efforts to decrease the high rates of mastectomy and extensive LNE should be taken given similar OS observed with breast conservation and 1e5 LNE, respectively. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Somatic alterations of targetable oncogenes are frequently observed in BRCA1/2 mutation negative male breast cancers	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease. Due to its rarity, MBC research and clinical approach are mostly based upon data derived from its largely known female counterpart. We aimed at investigating whether MBC cases harbor somatic alterations of genes known as prognostic biomarkers and molecular therapeutic targets in female breast cancer.We examined 103 MBC cases, all characterized for germ-line BRCA1/2 mutations, for somatic alterations in PIK3CA, EGFR, ESR1 and CCND1 genes.Pathogenic mutations of PIK3CA were detected in 2% of MBCs. No pathogenic mutations were identified in ESR1 and EGFR. Gene copy number variations (CNVs) analysis showed amplification of PIK3CA in 8.1%, EGFR in 6.8% and CCND1 in 16% of MBCs, whereas deletion of ESR1 was detected in 15% of MBCs. Somatic mutations and gene amplification were found only in BRCA1/2 mutation negative MBCs.Significant associations emerged between EGFR amplification and large tumor size (T4), ER-negative and HER2-positive status, between CCND1 amplification and HER2-positive and MIB1-positive status, and between ESR1 deletion and ER-negative status.Our results show that amplification of targetable oncogenes is frequent in BRCA1/2 mutation negative MBCs and may identify MBC subsets characterized by aggressive phenotype that may benefit from potential targeted therapeutic approaches.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	EMSY copy number variation in male breast cancers characterized for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease that shares some similarities with female breast cancer (FBC). Like FBC, genetic susceptibility to MBC can be referred to mutations in BRCA1 and, particularly, BRCA2 genes. However, only about 10 % of MBCs are caused by BRCA1/2 germ-line mutations, while the largest part are sporadic cancers and may derive from somatic alterations. EMSY, a BRCA2 inactivating gene, emerged as a candidate gene involved in the pathogenesis of sporadic FBC, and its amplification was suggested to be the somatic counterpart of BRCA2 mutations. Considering the relevant role of BRCA2 in MBC, we aimed at investigating the role of EMSY gene copy number variations in male breast tumors.EMSY copy number variations were analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR with TaqMan probes in a selected series of 75 MBCs, characterized for BRCA1/2 mutations.We reported EMSY amplification in 34.7 % of MBCs. A significant association emerged between EMSY amplification and BRCA1/2 mutations (p = 0.03). We identified two amplification subgroups characterized by low and high amplification levels, with BRCA2-related tumors mostly showing low EMSY amplification.Our results show a high frequency of EMSY amplification in MBC, thus pointing to a role of EMSY in the pathogenesis of this disease. EMSY amplification may be a new feature that might uncover underlying molecular pathways of MBCs and may allow for the identification of MBC subgroups with potential clinical implication for targeted therapeutic approaches.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Patterns of recurrence and treatment in male breast cancer: A clue to prognosis?	Male breast cancer (MBC) patients seem to have inferior survival compared to female (FBC) ones, which is not fully explained by usual prognostic factors. Recurrence analysis could show differences in relapse patterns and/or in patients' approaches that justify these outcomes. Retrospective analysis of MBC patients treated in a cancer center between 1990 and 2014, looking for relapse. For each patient, three matched FBC patients were selected by: diagnosis' year, age (within 5 years), stage and tumors' type (only luminal-like were considered). Differences between cohorts were assessed by chi(2) test and hierarchical clustering was performed to define subgroups according to relapse local. Survival curves were calculated by Kaplan-Meier and compared using log-rank test. Statistical significance was defined as p < 0.05. Groups were balanced according to age, histological grade, stage, expression of hormonal receptors and adjuvant treatments. Median time to recurrence was equivalent, p = 0.72, with the majority of patients presented with distant metastases, p = 0.69, with more lung involvement in male, p =0.003. Male patients were more often proposed to symptomatic treatment (21.1% vs. 4.4%, p = 0.02). Overall and from recurrence survivals were poorer for male, median: 5 years [95% confidence interval (CI): 4.1-5.9 years] and 1 year (95% CI: 0-2.1 years) vs. 10 years (95% CI: 7.8-12.2 years) and 2 years (95% CI: 1.6-2.4 years), p < 0.001 and p = 0.004, respectively, and this tendency remained in the five cluster subgroups, that identified five patterns of relapse, p = 0.003. MBC patients had the worst survival, even after controlling important factors, namely the local of relapse. Palliative systemic treatment had favorable impact in prognosis and its frequently avoidance in male could justify the outcomes differences.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Radiotherapy and Male Breast Cancer A Population-based Registry Analysis	Background: The local-regional management of female breast cancer has been extensively investigated worldwide. The optimal approach for males diagnosed with breast cancer is less clear. We have analyzed the treatment of male breast cancer using a population-based national registry to determine the impact of surgery and radiation therapy on survival.Materials and Methods: The Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) database was queried to identify males with invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast who underwent primary surgical resection (radical mastectomy, modified radical mastectomy, total mastectomy, or segmental) for the years 1983 to 2002. Demographic, clinical, and pathologic data were culled and analyzed to determine the impact of radiation therapy (RT) following resection. Survival rates were estimated using the Kaplan-Meier method and significance was determined using the log-rank test (P<0.05). Multivariate analysis with the Cox proportional hazards model was performed to determine factors significant for overall (OS) and cause-specific survival (CSS).Results: A total of 1337 patients met the eligibility criteria and were analyzed. Median follow-up was 7.3 years (range, 1 mo to 25 y). Most men underwent modified radical mastectomy (n=1062) with a minority undergoing segmental (n=113). About 329 men received postoperative external beam RT. The median rates of OS and CSS for all men were 10.5 years and not yet reached, respectively. The surgical procedure did not significantly associate with OS or CSS. By stage, RT was associated with improved OS for stage I (P=0.03). There was a trend for improved survival with stage II (P=0.21) and HE (P=0.15). RT was not associated with improved CSS by stage. RT improved rates of OS and CSS in N2 patients without reaching statistical significance (P=0.10 and 0.22). On multivariate analysis, advancing age, stage and grade, and no postoperative RT predicted for worse OS. However, when controlled for those with known hormone receptor status (n=978), only the factors of advancing age, stage, grade, and hormone receptor negativity predicted for worse OS. Advancing age, stage, and grade were the only predictors of CSS irrespective of the cohort analyzed.Conclusions: The primary surgical procedure did not ultimately influence OS or CSS in this population-based registry of males with breast cancer. A statistically nonsignificant improvement with postoperative RT was observed in men with lymph node involvement, larger tumor size, or higher stage. When controlled for age, stage, and grade in multivariate analysis, postoperative RT predicted for improved OS but not CSS. These data suggest a beneficial effect of RT in the postoperative setting. A prospective study is necessary to further elucidate appropriate treatment strategies for men with breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Paget's disease of the male breast in the 21st century: A systematic review	Paget's disease of the breast is characterized by eczematous changes of the nipple-areolar complex and is associated with an underlying in situ or invasive breast carcinoma in most cases. Histologically, Paget's disease is identified by epithelial cells with abundant basophilic or amphophilic, finely granular cytoplasm with a large, centrally situated nucleus, most abundant in the lower epidermal layers. Due to the rarity of the condition among breast cancers, compounded by the rarity of breast cancer in men, understanding of the disease's presentation, course, and optimal treatment in men is largely derived from case reports and extrapolation of findings from studies in female patients. Paget's disease must be differentiated from other conditions including eczema, Bowen's disease, squamous cell carcinoma, and melanoma. Recognition of Paget's disease clinically and pathologically is critical as the superficial lesion may be the only sign of an underlying ductal carcinoma and its presence may be of prognostic significance. This article provides an update on cases of Paget's disease of the breast in men reported in the published literature together with a comprehensive analysis of the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Data, 1973-2012. Current understanding and management of the disease in the context of male patients is reviewed. However, additional research is required to further understand the overall pathogenesis and molecular profile of Paget's disease to provide improved insight for personalized, precision-based therapeutic options. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical profile of male breast cancer in Nigerians		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: Clinicopathological and immunohistochemical characteristics		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Incidental Findings in Male Breast Carcinoma: A Genetic Counseling Approach	Male breast carcinoma (MBC) is a rare cancer type that accounts 1 percent of the total breast cancer cases. This substantially invites diagnosis challenges and social burdens where the individual needs more personalized therapies and genetic counseling to cope with the condition. This study aims to analyse a total of four male breast cancer cases with or without secondary recurrence. Tissue or saliva samples were analysed with informed and written consent for each individual subjecting to next generation sequencing aiming high throughput investigations. The results revealed two cancer syndromes in an individual with breast and thyroid carcinoma and mutations in PI3KCA, PTEN, NBN, RB1 genes. The rest three cases were identified with alterations in NBN, BRIP1 and BRCA2 mutations. Genetic counseling was provided to each participant and the responses were noted upon post-test targeted therapies.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The Genomic Landscape of Male Breast Cancers	Purpose: Male breast cancer is rare, and its genomic landscape has yet to be fully characterized. Lacking studies in men, treatment of males with breast cancer is extrapolated from results in females with breast cancer. We sought to define whether male breast cancers harbor somatic genetic alterations in genes frequently altered in female breast cancers.Experimental Design: All male breast cancers were estrogen receptor-positive, and all but two were HER2-negative. Fifty-nine male breast cancers were subtyped by immunohistochemistry, and tumor-normal pairs were microdissected and subjected to massively parallel sequencing targeting all exons of 241 genes frequently mutated in female breast cancers or DNA-repair related. The repertoires of somatic mutations and copy number alterations of male breast cancers were compared with that of subtype-matched female breast cancers.Results: Twenty-nine percent and 71% of male breast cancers were immunohistochemically classified as luminal A-like or luminal B-like, respectively. Male breast cancers displayed a heterogeneous repertoire of somatic genetic alterations that to some extent recapitulated that of estrogen receptor (ER)-positive/HER2-negative female breast cancers, including recurrent mutations affecting PIK3CA (20%) and GATA3 (15%). ER-positive/HER2-negative male breast cancers, however, less frequently harbored 16q losses, and PIK3CA and TP53 mutations than ER-positive/HER2-negative female breast cancers. In addition, male breast cancers were found to be significantly enriched for mutations affecting DNA repair-related genes.Conclusions: Male breast cancers less frequently harbor somatic genetic alterations typical of ER-positive/HER2-negative female breast cancers, such as PIK3CA and TP53 mutations and losses of 16q, suggesting that at least a subset of male breast cancers are driven by a distinct repertoire of somatic changes. Given the genomic differences, caution may be needed in the application of biologic and therapeutic findings from studies of female breast cancers to male breast cancers. (C) 2016 AACR.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer - a single center experience	Due to its rarity, male breast cancer remains a poorly characterized disease. The present study obtained retrospective clinicopathological data, treatment patterns and outcomes for all male patients diagnosed with breast cancer in the Oncology Department, Faculty Hospital Trencin (Trencin, Slovakia) over the last 21 years from January 1995 to December 2015. A total of 21 patients with male breast cancer were analyzed, with a median patient age of 65.6 years. Two patients were diagnosed with lobular invasive cancer; all others were diagnosed with cancer of a ductal origin. One patient presented with metastatic disease in the pleural cavity. The primary tumors in 8 patients were staged as pT1, whilst 6 patients were staged as pT2 and 7 as pT4. Axillary lymph node involvement was present in 11 patients (52%) and 15 patients were hormone receptor-positive (83%). All but 1 patient underwent mastectomy and surgical staging of the axilla. Adjuvant chemotherapy, radiotherapy and hormone treatment was administered in the same manner as breast cancer treatment in female patients. The median follow-up time was 4.5 years. The 5- and 10-year overall survival rates were 87 and 74%, respectively, and the estimated median disease-free survival for the same population was 9.5 years (95% confidence interval, 6.2-14.6). The survival rates reported in the present retrospective study are comparable with previously published studies. In addition, the current study reported predominant hormone-positive characteristics and rare expression of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2. However, further multi-institutional trials are required to allow for informed treatment decisions in this uncommon disease.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Expression of phosphorylated eIF4E-binding protein 1, but not of eIF4E itself, predicts survival in male breast cancer	Background: Male breast cancer is rare and treatment is based on data from females. High expression/activity of eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) denotes a poor prognosis in female breast cancer, and the eIF4E pathway has been targeted therapeutically. Eukaryotic initiation factor 4E activity in female breast cancer is deregulated by eIF4E overexpression and by phosphorylation of its binding protein, 4E-BP1, which relieves inhibitory association between eIF4E and 4E-BP1. The relevance of the eIF4E pathway in male breast cancer is unknown.Methods: We have assessed expression levels of eIF4E, 4E-BP1, 4E-BP2 and phosphorylated 4E-BP1 (p4E-BP1) using immunohistochemistry in a large cohort of male breast cancers (n = 337) and have examined correlations with prognostic factors and survival.Results: Neither eIF4E expression nor estimated eIF4E activity were associated with prognosis. However, a highly significant correlation was found between p4E-BP1 expression and disease-free survival (DFS), linking any detectable p4E-BP1 with poor survival (univariate log rank P = 0.001; multivariate HR 8.8, P = 0.0001).Conclusions: Our data provide no support for direct therapeutic targeting of eIF4E in male breast cancer, unlike in females. However, as p4E-BP1 gives powerful prognostic insights that are unrelated to eIF4E function, p4E-BP1 may identify male breast cancers potentially suitable for therapies directed at the upstream kinase, mTOR.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Malignant Phyllodes Breast Tumor After Prophylactic Breast Radiotherapy and Bicalutamide Treatment: A Case Report	Phyllodes tumor in male breast is an exceptionally rare neoplasm with only few published case reports. Herein, we present a case of malignant phyllodes tumor in male breast nine years after prophylactic breast 10 Gy radiotherapy and after nine year bicalutamide treatment. The imaging findings of the tumor and pathological correlation are also presented.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The male breast cancer: Epidemiological data from the North of Peru		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer susceptibility in patients with spinal bulbar muscular atrophy: a case report		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Characterization of mammary adenocarcinomas in male rats after N-methyl-N-nitrosourea exposure-Potential for human male breast cancer model	The frequency of breast cancer in men is extremely rare, reported to be less than 1% and there is currently no available animal model for male mammary tumors. We compared the characteristics of various immunohistochemical markers in N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU)-induced mammary adenocarcinomas in male and female Crj:CD(SD)IGS rats including: estrogen receptor a (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR), androgen receptor (AR), receptor tyrosine-protein kinase erbB-2 (HER2), GATA binding protein 3 (GATA3), and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Female mammary adenocarcinomas were strongly positive in the nuclei of tumor cells for PCNA and ER (100%) with only 60% and 53% expressing PgR and GATA3, respectively. 100% of male adenocarcinomas also exhibited strongly positive expression in the nuclei of tumor cells for PCNA, with 25% expressing AR and only 8% showing positivity for ER. Male carcinomas did not express PgR or GATA3 and none of the tumors, male or female, were positive for HER2. Based on the observed ER and PgR positivity and HER2 negativity within these tumors, MNU-induced mammary adenocarcinomas in female rats appear to be hormonally dependent, similar to human luminal A type breast cancer. In contrast, MNU-induced mammary adenocarcinomas in male rats showed no reactivity for ER, PgR, HER2 or GATA3, suggesting no hormonal dependency. Both male and female adenocarcinomas showed high proliferating activity by PCNA immunohistochemistry. Based on our literature review, human male breast cancers are mainly dependent on ER and/or PgR, therefore the biological pathogenesis of MNU-induced male mammary cancer in rats may differ from that of male breast cancer in humans. (C) 2016 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Case 12-2016: An 8-Year-Old Boy with an Enlarging Mass in the Right Breast		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Characterization of Korean Male Breast Cancer Using an Online Nationwide Breast-Cancer Database Matched-Pair Analysis of Patients With Female Breast Cancer	The aim of this study is to review the characteristics and the survival rate in male breast cancer (MBC) patients in Korea over a 31-year period. Additionally, we analyzed the overall survival (OS) rate of a group of MBC matched to females with breast cancer.We retrospectively analyzed the data from 400 Korean patients who were treated for MBC from 1978 to 2009. Patient demographics and clinical information were routinely documented throughout the study period. Survival and prognostic factors were evaluated. Each MBC patient was matched with 5 female breast cancer (FBC) patients based on 7 characteristics and we compared the OS rates between the 2 groups.For MBC cases, the median follow-up was 72 months and the 5-year OS rate was 85.9%. In univariate analyses, the prognostic factors influencing OS were age (more than 60 years, P<0.001), tumor size (>2cm, P = 0.007), and having a negative progesterone receptor (PR) status (P = 0.042). Only the age (P = 0.028) and tumor size (P = 0.024) were significant prognostic factors for OS in multivariate analysis. After matching, we had 260 male patients matched to 1300 female patients for analysis. Compared with cases among females, the rate of mastectomy was higher among MBC cases and tumors, which were almost invasive ductal carcinomas (IDCs), were more likely to be located in the central part of the breast. For MBC cases, the percentage of adjuvant radiation therapy was low compared with female cases. The primary hormone therapy agent used was tamoxifen. The 5-year OS rates were similar in MBC compared with FBC (91.0% vs. 92.6%, P = 0.300).We found that only the age (more than 60 years) and tumor size were independent prognostic factors of survival in MBC. The prognosis for MBC is similar to that for FBC given similar stage and hormone-receptor status.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: Looking for better prognostic subgroups	Purpose: Male Breast Cancer (MBC) remains a poor understood disease. Prognostic factors are not well established and specific prognostic subgroups are warranted.Patients/methods: Retrospectively revision of 111 cases treated in the same Cancer Center. Blinded-central pathological revision with immunohistochemical (IHQ) analysis for estrogen (ER), progesterone (PR) and androgen (AR) receptors, HER2, ki67 and p53 was done. Cox regression model was used for uni/multivariate survival analysis. Two classifications of Female Breast Cancer (FBC) subgroups (based in ER, PR, HER2, 2000 classification, and in ER, PR, HER2, ki67, 2013 classification) were used to achieve their prognostic value in MBC patients. Hierarchical clustering was performed to define subgroups based on the six-IHQ panel.Results: According to FBC classifications, the majority of tumors were luminal: A (89.2%; 60.0%) and B (7.2%; 35.8%). Triple negative phenotype was infrequent (2.7%; 3.2%) and HER2 enriched, non-luminal, was rare (<= 1% in both). In multivariate analysis the poor prognostic factors were: size >2 cm (HR: 1.8; 95% CI: 1.0-3.4years, p = 0.049), absence of ER (HR: 4.9; 95% CI: 1.7-14.3years, p = 0.004) and presence of distant metastasis (HR: 5.3; 95% CI: 2.2-3.1years, p < 0.001). FBC subtypes were independent prognostic factors (p = 0.009, p = 0.046), but when analyzed only luminal groups, prognosis did not differ regardless the classification used (p > 0.20). Clustering defined different subgroups, that have prognostic value in multivariate analysis (p = 0.005), with better survival in ER/PR+, AR-, HER2- and ki67/p53 low group (median: 11.5 years; 95% CI: 6.2-16.8 years) and worst in PR-group (median: 4.5 years; 95% CI: 1.6 -7.8 years).Conclusion: FBC subtypes do not give the same prognostic information in MBC even in luminal groups. Two subgroups with distinct prognosis were identified in a common six-IHQ panel. Future studies must achieve their real prognostic value in these patients. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Thyroid diseases in patients with breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Incidence of previously diagnosed other primary multiple malignancies in breast cancer patients; a retrospective statistical evaluation in 2007-2014		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Pathologic prognostic factors of male breast cancer: results of the EORTC 10085/TBCRC/BIG/NABG International Male Breast Cancer Program		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Occupational exposure to magnetic fields and breast cancer among Canadian men	Occupational magnetic field (MF) exposure has been suggested as a risk factor for breast cancer in both men and women. Due to the rarity of this disease in men, most epidemiologic studies investigating this relationship have been limited by small sample sizes. Herein, associations of several measures of occupational MF exposure with breast cancer in men were investigated using data from the population-based case-control component of the Canadian National Enhanced Cancer Surveillance System. Lifetime job histories were provided by 115 cases and 570 controls. Average MF exposure of individual jobs was classified into three categories (<0.3, 0.3 to <0.6, or 0.6T) through expert blinded review of participant's lifetime occupational histories. The impact of highest average and cumulative MF exposure, as well as exposure duration and specific exposure-time windows, on cancer risk was examined using logistic regression. The proportion of cases (25%) with a highest average exposure of 0.3T was higher than among controls (22%). We found an elevated risk of breast cancer in men who were exposed to 0.6T (odds ratio [OR]=1.80, 95% CI=0.82-3.95) when compared to those with exposures <0.3T. Those exposed to occupational MF fields for at least 30years had a nearly threefold increase in risk of breast cancer (OR=2.77, 95% CI=0.98-7.82) when compared to those with background levels of exposure. Findings for the other time-related MF variables were inconsistent. Our analysis, in one of the largest case-control studies of breast cancer in men conducted to date, provides limited support for the hypothesis that exposure to MF increases the risk breast cancer in men.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer and Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma in a Young Male with Cowden Syndrome	Male breast cancer (MBC) is unusual, especially in young adults. Most cases of MBC as a secondary malignancy relate to the previous treatment with ionizing radiation. MBC can be associated with mutations in hereditary cancer predisposition syndrome genes (i.e., BRCA2); however, no such association has been reported in patients with Cowden syndrome (involving the phosphatase and tensin homolog [PTEN] gene). We describe a patient with Cowden syndrome who was initially diagnosed with B-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma at the age of 7 years, then MBC at the age of 31 years, and never received radiation therapy.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancers: Are They Different Than Female Breast Cancers?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancers: Are They Different Than Female Breast Cancers?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Increased risk of male cancer and identification of a potential prostate cancer cluster region in BRCA2	Background. The risk of cancer in men from BRCA1 and BRCA2 families is relevant to define to motivate genetic testing and optimize recommendations for surveillance.Material and methods. We assessed the risk of cancer in male mutation carriers and their first-degree relatives in 290 BRCA1 and BRCA2 families with comparison to matched controls with the aim to motivate genetic testing and optimize recommendations for surveillance.Results. Mutation carriers in BRCA1 families were not at increased risk of cancer, whereas mutation carriers in BRCA2 families were at increased risk of male breast cancer and prostate cancer with cumulative risks of 12.5% and 18.8%, respectively. Breast cancer developed at a mean age of 59 years, typically as ER/PR positive ductal carcinomas. Prostate cancer developed at a mean age of 68 years, with Gleason scores 8 in 40% of the tumors. The hazard ratio for BRCA2-associated prostate cancer was 3.7 (p < 0.001) in mutation carriers and 3.1 (p = 0.001) in first-degree relatives. Of the 37 prostate cancers, 19 were linked to four BRCA2 mutations within a region defined by c.6373-c.6492. Individuals with mutations herein had a HR of 3.7 for prostate cancer compared to individuals with mutations outside of this region.Conclusions. Male mutation carriers and first-degree relatives in BRCA2 families are at an increased risk of breast cancer and prostate cancer with a potential prostate cancer cluster region within exon 11 of BRCA2.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Bilateral male breast cancer: a case presenting with synchronous invasive lobular carcinoma and invasive ductal carcinoma	Synchronous bilateral male breast cancer is a very rare entity and invasive lobular carcinoma is less common in male breast cancer (MBC) than in female breast cancer (FBC). A 51-year-old man presented with a palpable mass in the left breast was finally diagnosed synchronous bilateral MBC, one an invasive lobular carcinoma and the other an invasive ductal carcinoma. It remains a matter of debate whether invasive lobular carcinoma has better or worse outcome than invasive ductal carcinoma, so that clinicopathological characteristics of tumors are used to evaluate the risk of recurrence. In our case, an unusually small invasive ductal carcinoma with a low level of proliferation had already developed many axillary lymph node metastases in spite of dire clinicopathological characteristics of the invasive lobular carcinoma of the left breast determined during the first treatment, while the invasive ductal carcinoma of the right breast was thought to have developed distant metastasis. We report the first case of synchronous bilateral MBC, one an invasive lobular carcinoma and the other an invasive ductal carcinoma, and discuss about the unusual clinicopathological characteristics of these two tumors.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The prognostic value of clinical and pathologic features in nonmetastatic operable male breast cancer	Compared with female breast cancer, male breast cancer is a rare disease, and the relationship between clinical/pathologic features and prognosis is controversial, or even largely unknown. In this study, we performed a retrospective analysis using clinical and pathologic data from 109 nonmetastatic operable male breast cancer patients treated from January 1996 to December 2011 at Tianjin Medical University Cancer Institute and Hospital. Log-rank test showed that lower tumor stage, no lymph node involvement, and positive estrogen/progesterone receptor status were good predictors of both disease-free survival and overall survival on univariate analysis. However, hormonotherapy is only a good predictive factor of disease-free survival, and not of overall survival. In addition, based on a Cox proportional hazard regression model, only lymph node involvement, and estrogen/progesterone receptor status were statistically significant predictive factors on multivariate analysis. Our results demonstrated that although adjuvant systemic therapy is used extensively in male breast cancer patients and prognosis has improved over the last few decades, lymph node involvement, and estrogen/progesterone receptor status are still the most important prognostic factors. A prospective multi-center study with a larger sample size is urgently needed to further understand male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Biomarker analysis of a male breast cancer patient with prolonged stable disease under mTOR/PI3K inhibitors BEZ235/RAD001	The mTORC1 inhibitor RAD001 (everolimus) has been approved for multiple cancer indications, including ER+/HER2-metastatic breast cancer. The combination of RAD001 with a dual PI3K/mTOR inhibitor BEZ235 was shown to be even more efficacious than RAD001 alone in preclinical models and was evaluated in clinical trials. We identified a male breast cancer patient who experienced a prolonged stable disease with the RAD001/BEZ235 combination as 3rd line treatment for his metastatic disease and investigated molecular mechanisms to explain the extraordinary benefit and subsequent drug resistance.The 66-year old Caucasian male had stage IIIA invasive ductal carcinoma at initial surgery. He then received two sequential adjuvant therapies: a chemo-radiotherapy and letrozole. When the patient developed multiple metastases, he was treated with chemotherapy and then fulvestrant, before received a 200 mg twice daily BEZ235 and 2.5 mg weekly RAD001 combination regimen, when a left axillary nodal metastasis was developed on fulvestrant. The patient sustained a prolonged stable disease of 18 months while under the therapy before his tumor progressed again.Tumor biopsy samples (formalin fixed, paraffin embedded) were taken from the patient at diagnosis and after progression and analyzed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and whole exome sequencing. Blood samples were collected for germline DNA pharmacokinetic (PK) analysis.PK profile of BEZ235 was collected with C-max, AUC, and T-1/2 of 766 ng/mL, 6308 ng.h/mL, and 5.53 h, respectively. The observed BEZ235 C-min values ranged from 75.5 to 504 ng/mL over the study. The 2.5 mg weekly RAD001 dose is substantially lower than the standard 10 mg daily dose and the C-min could not be reliably determined.IHC assays showed low ER/PR expression (ER 30% 1+; PR 20% 1+, 10% 3+) in the diagnosis sample, but an increase of their expression (60% 1+) in the post progression sample. HER2 expression was negative in both samples. Analysis the same tumor samples using more quantitative AQUA platform demonstrated a drastic 10-fold score increase of ER from 31 to 312 and a 5-fold increase of PR from 271 to 1305. All other examined signaling pathway biomarkers (e.g. pS6, pAKT, pMAPK, pMEK and pEGFR) were expressed in both tumor samples but showed minimal expression changes between the time points.Whole exome sequencing of the diagnosis and post-progression specimens provided average coverage at 142X and 179X, respectively. No functional somatic alterations resulting in hyperactive PI3K/mTOR pathway was detected in genes such as PIK3CA, PTEN, MTOR, TSC1/2 in either tumor samples. In both specimens, a somatic deletion of 16 bp was detected in SPEN, which encodes a potential negative regulator of the estrogen signaling pathway 1.In conclusion, no PI3K/mTOR pathway hyperactivity marker was identified in the diagnostic samples. However, the increased ER/PR expression in the post-progression sample suggests that the effect of PI3K/mTOR pathway blockade by RAD001/BEZ235 might have diminished when the tumor gained further dependence on the hormonal receptor signaling. This hypothesis was supported by the observation that the patient's tumor achieved another prolonged disease control of about 13 months by exemestane, after progression from BEZ235/RAD001 treatment.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The cancer genetics and pathology of male breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is an uncommon and poorly understood disease. Recent molecular studies have shown important differences from female breast cancer which are likely to influence treatment strategies from the current female-based management towards a more tailored approach. Significantly more MBCs than female breast cancers arise with an underlying germline cancer predisposition, and display a vastly different penetrance compared with females. Furthermore, the genophenotypical association of basal-like cancer with BRCA1 present in female breast cancer is not observed in male breast cancer. Differences in somatic changes between male and female breast cancer have also been reported, with particular enrichment of PIK3CA mutations and a paucity of TP53 mutations. In general, chromosomal-based changes, in particular regions of gains, are seen more frequently in male than female breast cancer and methylation is seen less frequently. Clinically, several molecular subtypes with prognostic relevance have been described, including chromosomal complex high and methylation high groups, and subgroups with profiling signatures pertaining to epithelial mesenchymal transition and hormonal therapy insensitivity. As with female breast cancer, attention to male specific multicentre trials based on the individual characteristics are needed, together with establishment of reliable preclinical models to understand more clearly the pathogenesis of male breast cancer and improve the general poor outcome of this disease.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	TMSB4Y is a candidate tumor suppressor on the Y chromosome and is deleted in male breast cancer	Male breast cancer comprises less than 1% of breast cancer diagnoses. Although estrogen exposure has been causally linked to the development of female breast cancers, the etiology of male breast cancer is unclear. Here, we show via fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and droplet digital PCR (ddPCR) that the Y chromosome was clonally lost at a frequency of similar to 16% (5/31) in two independent cohorts of male breast cancer patients. We also show somatic loss of the Y chromosome gene TMSB4Y in a male breast tumor, confirming prior reports of loss at this locus in male breast cancers. To further understand the function of TMSB4Y, we created inducible cell lines of TMSB4Y in the female human breast epithelial cell line MCF-10A. Expression of TMSB4Y resulted in aberrant cellular morphology and reduced cell proliferation, with a corresponding reduction in the fraction of metaphase cells. We further show that TMSB4Y interacts directly with beta-actin, the main component of the actin cytoskeleton and a cell cycle modulator. Taken together, our results suggest that clonal loss of the Y chromosome may contribute to male breast carcinogenesis, and that the TMSB4Y gene has tumor suppressor properties.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Tracing differences between male and female breast cancer: both diseases own a different biology	Aims: Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare and poorly characterized disease. In the present study we used a novel biomathematical model to further characterize MBC and to identify differences between male and female breast cancer (FBC).Methods and results: A total of 134 cases of MBC were stained immunohistochemically for 13 key oncoproteins, and staining percentages were used in a mathematical model to identify dependency patterns between these proteins. The results were compared with a large group of FBC (n = 728). MBC and FBC clearly differed on the molecular level. In detail, the results suggest a different role for progesterone receptor (PR) compared to oestrogen receptor (ER) in MBC, while in FBC ER and PR show a similar pattern. In addition, Androgen receptor (AR) seems to be a more powerful effector in MBC. Grades 1 and 2 tumours were clearly separated from grade 3 tumours, and luminal types A and B tumours also showed a different pattern.Conclusions: Defined morphological and molecular phenotypes can be identified in MBC, but these seem to be the result of different molecular mechanisms and perhaps multiple genetic pathways, as characterized previously in FBC, emphasizing the rising concept that MBC and FBC should be regarded as different and unique diseases.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	ANDROGEN RECEPTOR IN MALE BREAST CANCER	We present the androgen receptor (AR) status in 32 breast cancers diagnosed in male patients. Androgen receptor expression was found in 62.5% tumors and it was more frequent (85% of cases) in estrogen-positive tumours. The analyses of its impact on treatment results showed that AR immmunopositivity is a prognostic factor for overall survival, and AR immunonegativity is also correlated with worse prognosis (distant metastases developed more frequently and earlier).	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Physical Activity and Risk of Male Breast Cancer	The association between leisure-time physical activity (LTPA) and male breast cancer risk is unclear. In the Male Breast Cancer Pooling Project, with 449 cases and 13,855 matched controls, we used logistic regression with study stratification to generate adjusted ORs and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for LTPA tertiles and male breast cancer risk. Compared with low LTPA, medium and high LTPA were not associated with male breast cancer risk (OR, 1.01; 95% CI, 0.79-1.29; 0.90, 0.69-1.18, respectively). In joint-effects analyses, compared with the referent of high body mass index (BMI; >= 25 kg/m(2))/low LTPA, neither medium nor high PA was associated with risk among high BMI men, but normal BMI men (<25 kg/m(2)) with low or medium LTPA were at a nonsignificant similar to 16% reduced risk and those with high LTPA were at a 27% reduced risk (OR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.50-1.07). Physical activity alone may not confer protection against male breast cancer risk. (C)2015 AACR.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	X chromosome gain in male breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is an uncommon disease whose molecular profile is not well known. X chromosome gain has been described as a marker of aggressive behavior in female breast cancer. The aim of this study is to investigate the role of the X chromosome in male breast cancer. Twenty cases of male breast invasive ductal carcinoma were retrieved and compared with 10 cases of gynecomastia. Cases were tested by fluorescence in situ hybridization to assess a cytogenetic profile for the X chromosome. The X chromosome status was compared with histopathologic features and stage at presentation. All MBC cases harbored an X chromosome gain (100%) in a variable percentage of neoplastic cells, ranging from 31% to 85% (mean, 59%). On the contrary, all cases of gynecomastia showed wild X chromosome asset. The patients' age at surgery and tumor grading showed a statistically significant correlation (P = .0188-.04), with the percentages of neoplastic cells showing an X chromosome gain. These data suggest that this X chromosome gain plays a role in the neoplastic transformation of male breast epithelial cells. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Is Breast Conserving Therapy a Safe Modality for Male Breast Cancer?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Novel and known genetic variants for male breast cancer risk at 8q24.21, 9p21.3, 11q13.3 and 14q24.1: Results from a multicenter study in Italy	Increasing evidence indicates that common genetic variants may contribute to the heritable risk of breast cancer (BC). In this study, we investigated whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), within the 8q24.21 multi-cancer susceptibility region and within BC-associated loci widespread in the genome, may influence the risk of BC in men, and whether they may be associated with specific clinical-pathologic characteristics of male BC (MBC).In the frame of the ongoing Italian Multicenter Study on MBC, we performed a case-control study on 386 MBC cases, including 50 BRCA1/2 mutation carriers, and 1105 healthy male controls, including 197 unaffected BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. All 1491 subjects were genotyped by Sequenom iPLEX technology for a total of 29 susceptibility SNPs. By logistic regression models, we found a significant association with MBC risk for five SNPs: rs1562430 (p = 0.002) and rs445114 (p = 0.026) both within the 8q24.21 region; rs1011970/9p21.3 (p = 0.011), rs614367/11q13.3 (p = 0.016) and rs1314913/14q24.1 (p < 0.0001).Differences in the distribution of rs614367/11q13.3 genotypes according to oestrogen receptor (ER) status (p = 0.006), and of rs1011970/9p21.3 genotypes according to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status (p = 0.002) emerged. Association of rs1011970/9p21.3 risk genotype with HER2+ MBC was confirmed by a multivariate analysis. rs1314913/14q24.1 was associated with increased MBC risk in analyses restricted to male BRCA1/2 mutation carriers (p = 0.041).In conclusion, we provided the first evidence that the 8q24.21 region is associated with MBC risk. Furthermore, we showed that the SNPs rs1562430/8q24.21 and rs1314913/14q24.1 strongly influence BC risk in men and suggested that the SNP rs1314913/14q24.1 may act as a risk modifier locus in male BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Androgen receptor and antiandrogen therapy in male breast cancer	Cancers arising in the male breast are uncommon. Male breast cancer is a hormone-driven disease that often expresses the estrogen receptor, and antiestrogen therapy represents the mainstay of treatment. Paradoxically, the advent of a wave of antiestrogens eclipsed the therapeutic potential of alternative therapeutic options. At the beginning of the hormonal therapy era the administration of antiandrogens to metastatic male breast cancer patients was proposed. Ever since the use of these compounds has largely been neglected. A therapeutic role for antiandrogens has been envisioned again in recent years. First, molecular characterization efforts pointed to the androgen receptor as a potential therapeutic target. Second, the development of aromatase inhibitors unexpectedly raised the need for neutralizing androgens in order to tackle endocrine feedback mechanisms responsible for acquired resistance. We herein provide an overview of molecular studies where the androgen receptor was investigated at the genomic, transcriptomic or phenotypic level. We then discuss androgens in the context of the endocrine networks nourishing male breast cancer. Finally, clinical evidence on antiandrogens is summarized along with strategies should be implemented to improve the medical management of these patients. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: A single institute experience	BACKGROUND: Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease and accounts for 1% of all breast cancers. There is limited data on MBC from India. The aim of our study was to assess clinico-pathological parameters and outcome in MBC patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This analysis was carried out in 76 patients of MBC who were registered at Institute Rotary Cancer Hospital of All India Institute Of Medical Sciences between 1996 and 2012. Patients' records were retrospective reviewed and data obtained from the computer database using International Classification of Diseases code (C-50). RESULTS: The median age was 59 years (range: 28-80). The median duration of symptoms was 11 months (range: 0.5-40). Breast lump was the most common presenting symptom (left >right side). American Joint Committee on Cancer (7th edition) stage distribution was Stage I-2.6%, Stage II-13.1%, Stage III-59.3% and Stage IV-25%. Modified radical mastectomy was the commonest surgical procedure. Moreover, 30% of tumors were high-grade and 70% had pathological node positive disease. Estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)/neu positivity was 80% and 28%, respectively. Triple negative breast cancer constituted 19% of cases. With a median follow-up of 36 months, 3 years relapse free survival and overall survival was 60% and 80%. Advanced stage and visceral metastasis at baseline predicted poor outcome. CONCLUSION: MBC constituted 0.8% at our institute. Our study population had a longer time to presentation, advanced disease at presentation, more HER2/neu positivity and triple negativity higher than the available literature.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Genome methylation patterns in male breast cancer - Identification of an epitype with hypermethylation of polycomb target genes	Male breast cancer (hoc) is a rare disease that shares both similarities and differences with female breast cancer (FBC). The aim of this study was to assess genome-wide DNA methylation profiles in MBC and compare them with the previously identified transcriptional subgroups of MBC, luminal M1 and M2, as well as the intrinsic subtypes of FBC. Illumina's 450K Infinium arrays were applied to 47 MBC and 188 FBC tumors. Unsupervised clustering of the most variable CpGs among MBC tumors revealed two stable epitypes, designated ME1 and ME2. The methylation patterns differed significantly between the groups and were closely associated with the transcriptional subgroups luminal M1 and M2. Tumors in the ME1 group were more proliferative and aggressive than ME2 tumors, and showed a tendency toward inferior survival. ME1 tumors also displayed hypermethylation of PRC2 target genes and high expression of EZH2, one of the core components of PRC2. Upon combined analysis of MBC and FBC tumors, ME1 MBCs clustered among luminal B FBC tumors and ME2 MBCs clustered within the predominantly luminal A FBC cluster. The majority of the MBC tumors remained grouped together within the clusters rather than being interspersed among the FBC tumors. Differences in the genomic location of methylated CpGs, as well as in the regulation of central canonical pathways may explain the separation between MBC and FBC tumors in the respective clusters. These findings further suggest that MBC is not readily defined using conventional criteria applied to FBC. (C) 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Federation of European Biochemical Societies.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Smoking and survival in male breast cancer patients	The purpose of the article was to assess whether smoking affects survival in male breast cancer patients for the overall population and when stratified by race, ethnicity, and socioeconomic status. Data were obtained by linking the 1996-2007 Florida Cancer Data System, the Florida Agency for Health Care Administration, and the US Census. Inclusion criteria were males a parts per thousand yen18 years, diagnosed with breast cancer and residing in Florida (n = 1573). To analyze the association between smoking and survival, we performed sequential multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression models with progressive adjustment for main confounders. Compared to never smokers, worse survival was found in current (hazard ratio = 1.63; 95 % CI = 1.23-2.16) but not in former smokers (1.26; 0.99-1.59). Those who smoked a parts per thousand yen1 packs/day had worse survival (2.48; 1.59-3.87) than never smokers with a significant dose-response (P for linear trend < 0.001). Race-ethnic stratified models comparing current and former smokers with never smokers found significant differences among Whites [(1.88; 1.44-2.44) and (1.31; 1.04-1.65, respectively)] and non-Hispanics, [(1.73; 1.31-2.28) and (1.31; 1.04-1.66, respectively)]. Overall, current smokers were found to have significantly reduced survival, which was worse by intensity of smoking. Also, any smoking history is associated with worse survival in White and non-Hispanic male breast cancer patients compared to never smokers. Thus, male breast cancer patients should be advised to quit smoking.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The clinical pathway for breast cancer patients		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Heterozygous germline mutations in MRE11 among korean patients with high-risk breast cancer negative for BRCA1/2 mutation		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	5-alpha reductase inhibitors, benign prostatic hyperplasia, and risk of male breast cancer	5-alpha reductase inhibitors (5-ARI) have been suggested to increase the risk of male breast cancer. The aim of this study was to study the risk of breast cancer in men on 5-ARI, in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) not on 5-ARI, and in men without BPH.We performed a population-based cohort study in Sweden with data from The Prescribed Drug Register, The Patient Register, and The Cancer Register. Men on 5-ARI, men on alpha-blockers, or men who had undergone a transurethral resection of the prostate (TUR-P) prior to or during 2006-2008 were included as exposed to BPH and a specific treatment thereof. For each exposed man, five unexposed men were selected. Risk of breast cancer was calculated in Cox proportional hazard models.There were 124,183 exposed men and 545,293 unexposed men, and during follow-up (median 6 years), 99 men with breast cancer were diagnosed. Compared to unexposed men, men on 5-ARI had a hazard ratio (HR) of breast cancer of 0.74 (95 % confidence interval (CI) 0.27-2.03), men on alpha-blockers had HR 1.47 (95 % CI 0.73-2.95), and men with a TUR-P had HR 1.99 (95 % CI 1.05-3.75).No increased risk of breast cancer was observed for men on 5-ARI. However, the increased risk of breast cancer among men who had undergone a TUR-P, a strong indicator of BPH, suggests that the endocrine milieu conducive to BPH is associated with male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Primary breast lymphoma: Clinicopathological analysis of 18 cases		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Comparison patterns of 4 T1 antigens recognized by humoral immune response mediated by IgG and IgM antibodies in female and male mice with breast cancer using 2D-immnunoblots	The early detection of cancer is one of the most promising approaches to reduce its growing burden and develop a curative treatment before the tumor is established. The early diagnosis of breast cancer is the most demanding of all tumors, because it is the most common cancer in women worldwide. We have described a new approach to analyze humoral immune reactions against 4 T1 cell antigens in female mice, reporting that the IgG and IgM responses differed and varied over time and between individuals. In this study, we compared and analyzed the detection of tumor antigens with IgG and IgM from the sera of male mice that were injected with 4 T1 cells into the mammary gland nipple in 2D immunoblot images. The variability in IgM and IgG responses in female and male mice with breast cancer at various stages of disease was characterized, and the properties with regard to antigen recognition were correlated statistically with variables that were associated with the individuals and tumors.The ensuing IgG and IgM responses differed. Only the IgG response decreased over time in female mice - not in male mice. The IgM response was maintained during tumor development in both sexes. Each mouse had a specific pattern of antigen recognition - ie, an immunological signature - represented by a unique set of antigen spots that were recognized by IgM or IgG. These data would support that rationale IgM is a better tool for early diagnosis, because it is not subject to immunosuppression like IgG in female mice with breast cancer. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic significance of tumor subtypes in male breast cancer: a population-based study	Substantial controversy exists about the prognostic role of tumor subtypes in male breast cancer (MaBC). The aim of this study was to analyze the characteristics of each tumor subtype in MaBC and its association with prognosis compared with other factors. We evaluated MaBC patients between 2010 and 2012 with known estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor [together hormone receptor (HR)] status, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) status reported to the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program. Patients were classified as: HR-positive/HER2-negative, HR-positive/HER2-positive, HR-negative/HER2-positive, and triple-negative (TN). Univariate and multivariate analyses determined the effect of each variable on overall survival (OS). We included 960 patients. Patient distribution was 84.9 % HR-positive/HER2-negative, 11.6 % HR-positive/HER2-positive, 0.6 % HR-negative/HER2-positive, and 2.9 % TN. TN patients were younger, had higher grade, presented with more advanced stage, were more likely to have mastectomy, and to die of breast cancer (all P < 0.05). Univariate analysis showed that HER2 positivity was associated with shorter OS (hazard ratio 1.90, P = 0.031) and TN patients had worse prognosis (hazard ratio 5.10, P = 0.0004). In multivariate analysis, older patients (hazard ratio 3.10, P = 0.032), those with stage IV (hazard ratio 16.27, P < 0.001) and those with TN tumors (hazard ratio 4.61, P = 0.002) had significantly worse OS. We observed significant differences in patient characteristics according to tumor subtype. HER2-positive and TN represented a small proportion of cases. In addition to age and stage, tumor subtype has clear influence on OS in MaBC.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	CYP2D6*4 polymorphism: A new marker of response to hormonotherapy in male breast cancer?	Background: Tamoxifen remains the standard hormonotherapy for Male breast cancer patients (MBC). Previous studies, in women, tried to evaluate the impact of CYP2D6 polymorphisms in tamoxifen efficacy with conflicting results. Herein we analyze the relation between CYP2D6*4 polymorphism and survival in MBC patients.Patients and methods: Fifty-three patients, proposed to tamoxifen in adjuvant setting, were enrolled. Clinical information was collected from records and histological revision with additional immunochemistry analysis was done to better characterize the tumors. Comprehensive CYP2D6*4 genotyping from blood or tumor tissue was performed and translated into two predicted metabolic activity groups.Results: Patients included in the two CYP2D6*4 groups did not differ concerning to age, histological characteristics, and primary treatments performed. Median age at diagnosis was 63 years-old and patients were submitted at least to mastectomy and adjuvant hormonotherapy. Recurrence was observed in 7 patients (13.2%) and 13 patients (25.5%) died with a 5-year disease-free survival of 86.2%. The poorer metabolizer group had a high risk for recurrence (p = 0.034) and this outcome effect remains in different subgroups: in tumors larger than 2 cm (p < 0.001), nodal status, N0 vs N+ (p = 0.04) and in advanced stage, stage III (p < 0.001). Poorer metabolizer patients had also a worse overall survival when tumors were larger than 2 cm (p = 0.03).Conclusions: In our series, there was an association between CYP2D6*4 polymorphism and a probability of recurrence, with a consistent effect in risk groups defined by classic prognostic factors. Multicentric studies with larger samples are needed to validate these results. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Detection and prevalence of disseminated tumor cells from the bone marrow of early stage male breast cancer patients	Male breast cancer (mBC) is a rare entity. As detection of disseminated tumor cells (DTCs) in the bone marrow of females with early stage breast cancer is a promising prognostic marker, we aimed to determine the prevalence and prognostic value of DTCs in mBC. Bone marrow aspirates were collected from male patients undergoing primary surgery for early stage breast cancer (T1-4, N0-2, M0) at Tuebingen University, Germany, between January 2001 and April 2015. DTCs were identified by immunocytochemistry (pancytokeratin antibody A45/B-B3) and cytomorphology. 24 patients with mBC were included into the analysis. DTCs were detected in four of these (17 %). There was no significant association between the DTC status and any other clinicopathological parameter. Also, no significant impact of the DTC status on DFS or OS could be observed. DTCs are detectable in patients with early stage mBC. The detection rate is comparable to that in women. No associations between DTCs and clinicopathological features or prognosis were observed, which is most likely due to the small sample size. The detection of DTCs in male patients with early stage breast cancer emphasizes the transmission of future clinical applications for DTCs from women to men.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	BRCA Mutations Increase Fertility in Families at Hereditary Breast/Ovarian Cancer Risk	BackgroundDeleterious mutations in the BRCA genes are responsible for a small, but significant, proportion of breast and ovarian cancers (5 - 10 %). Proof of de novo mutations in hereditary breast/ovarian cancer (HBOC) families is rare, in contrast to founder mutations, thousands of years old, that may be carried by as much as 1% of a population. Thus, if mutations favoring cancer survive selection pressure through time, they must provide advantages that compensate for the loss of life expectancy.MethodThis hypothesis was tested within 2,150 HBOC families encompassing 96,325 individuals. Parameters included counts of breast/ovarian cancer, age at diagnosis, male breast cancer and other cancer locations. As expected, well-known clinical parameters discriminated between BRCA-mutated families and others: young age at breast cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer and male breast cancer. The major fertility differences concerned men in BRCA-mutated families: they had lower first and mean age at paternity, and fewer remained childless. For women in BRCA families, the miscarriage rate was lower. In a logistic regression including clinical factors, the different miscarriage rate and men's mean age at paternity remained significant.ResultsFertility advantages were confirmed in a subgroup of 746 BRCA mutation carriers and 483 non-carriers from BRCA mutated families. In particular, female carriers were less often nulliparous (9.1 % of carriers versus 16.0 %, p = 0.003) and had more children (1.8 +/- 1.4 SD versus 1.5 +/- 1.3, p = 0.002) as well as male carriers (1.7 +/- 1.3 versus 1.4 +/- 1.3, p = 0.024).ConclusionAlthough BRCA mutations shorten the reproductive period due to cancer mortality, they compensate by improving fertility both in male and female carriers.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Obesity and male breast cancer: provocative parallels?	While rare compared to female breast cancer the incidence of male breast cancer (MBC) has increased in the last few decades. Without comprehensive epidemiological studies, the explanation for the increased incidence of MBC can only be speculated. Nevertheless, one of the most worrying global public health issues is the exponential rise in the number of overweight and obese people, especially in the developed world. Although obesity is not considered an established risk factor for MBC, studies have shown increased incidence among obese individuals. With this observation in mind, this article highlights the correlation between the increased incidence of MBC and the current trends in obesity as a growing problem in the 21st century, including how this may impact treatment. With MBC becoming more prominent we put forward the notion that, not only is obesity a risk factor for MBC, but that increasing obesity trends are a contributing factor to its increased incidence.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Chromosome 17 copy number changes in male breast cancer	Overall, HER2-amplified female breast cancer (FBC) is associated with a high grade, an aggressive phenotype and a poor prognosis. In male breast cancer (MBC) amplification of HER2, located on chromosome 17, occurs at a lower frequency than in FBC, where it is part of complex rearrangements. So far, only few studies have addressed the occurrence of chromosome 17 alterations in small MBC cohorts.Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) were used to detect and characterize copy number changes on chromosome 17 in a cohort of 139 MBC. The results obtained were compared to those in FBC, and were correlated with clinicopathological features and patient outcome data.We observed a lower frequency of chromosome 17 copy number changes with less complex rearrangement patterns in MBC compared to FBC. Chromosome 17 changes in MBC included gains of 17q and losses of 17p. Whole chromosome 17 polyploidies were not encountered. Two recurrent chromosome 17 amplicons were detected: on 17q12 (encompassing the NEUROD2, HER2, GRB7 and IKZF3 gens) and on 17q23.1 (encompassing the MIR21 and RPS6KB1 genes). Whole arm copy number gains of 17q were associated with decreased 5 year survival rates (p = 0.010). Amplification of HER2 was associated with a high tumor grade, but did not predict patient survival. Although copy number gains of HER2 and NEUROD2 were associated with a high tumor grade, a high mitotic count and a decreased 5 year survival rate (p = 0.015), only tumor size and NEUROD2 copy number gains emerged as independent prognostic factors.In MBC chromosome 17 shows less complex rearrangements and fewer copy number changes compared to FBC. Frequent gains of 17q, encompassing two distinct amplicons, and losses of 17p were observed, but no whole chromosome 17 polyploidies. Only NEUROD2 gains seem to have an independent prognostic impact. These results suggest different roles of chromosome 17 aberrations in male versus female breast carcinogenesis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The impact of Angelina Jolie (AJ)'s story on genetic referral and testing at an academic cancer centre		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic models in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Characterization of male breast cancer: First results of the EORTC10085/TBCRC/BIG/NABCG International Male BC Program		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The genomic landscape of male breast cancers		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Aromatase inhibitors in male breast cancer: a pooled analysis	Although several studies have shown the efficacy of third-generation aromatase inhibitors (AIs) in women with breast cancer, the role of such molecules remains elusive in male breast cancer patients. It is also unknown whether the addition of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues to AIs would be a superior strategy or not. This pooled analysis was conducted in accordance with the PRISMA guidelines. All studies that examined the efficacy of AIs in metastatic male breast cancer were considered eligible. Overall, 15 studies (105 cases) were eligible for this pooled analysis. The mean age of the study sample was 62.8 years. ER status was positive in all eligible cases. AI was given as first line in 61.5 % of cases. GnRH analogue was co-administered with AI in 37.1 % of cases (n = 39). CR, PR, SD and PD were achieved in 5.7, 23.8, 37.2 and 33.3 % of cases, respectively. The median PFS and OS were equal to 10.0 and 39.0 months, respectively. Co-administration of GnRH analogues was associated with more than threefold increase in rates of clinical benefit (OR = 3.37, 95 % CI 1.30-8.73) but did not seem to correlate with better PFS or OS. No statistically significant associations between the examined outcomes and the other parameters were noted. Available data suggest that AIs may potentially play a promising role in the optimal therapeutic strategy for metastatic male breast cancer patients. Especially, co-administration of AI with a GnRH analogue seems to increase the rate of clinical benefit and could be more effective, warranting further consideration.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The prevalence and spectrum of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in Korean population: recent update of the Korean Hereditary Breast Cancer (KOHBRA) study	The Korean Hereditary Breast Cancer (KOHBRA) study was established to evaluate the prevalence and spectrum of BRCA1/2 mutations in Korean breast cancer patients at risk for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer. A total of 2953 subjects (2403 index patients and 550 family members of affected carriers) from 36 centers participated in this study between May 2007 and December 2013. All participants received genetic counseling and BRCA genetic testing. In total, 378 mutation carriers among 2403 index patients were identified. The prevalence of BRCA mutations in specific subgroups was as follows: 22.3 % (274/1228) for breast cancer patients with a family history of breast/ovarian cancers, 8.8 % (39/441) for patients with early-onset (< 35 years) breast cancer without a family history, 16.3 % (34/209) for patients with bilateral breast cancer, 4.8 % (1/21) for male patients with breast cancer, and 37.5 % (3/8) for patients with both breast and ovarian cancer. From an analysis of the mutation spectrum, 63 BRCA1 and 90 BRCA2 different mutations, including 44 novel mutations, were identified. The c.7480 (p.Arg2494Ter) mutation in BRCA2 (10.1 %) was the most commonly identified in this cohort. The KOHBRA study is the largest cohort to identify BRCA mutation carriers in Asia. The results suggest that the prevalence of BRCA mutations in familial breast cancer patients is similar to that among Western cohorts. However, some single risk factors without family histories (early-onset breast cancer, male breast cancer, or multiple organ cancers) may limit the utility of BRCA gene testing in the Korean population.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	CHEK2 c.1100delC allele is rarely identified in Greek breast cancer cases	The CHEK2 gene encodes a protein kinase that plays a crucial role in maintenance of genomic integrity and the DNA repair mechanism. CHEK2 germline mutations are associated with increased risk of breast cancer and other malignancies. From a clinical perspective, the most significant mutation identified is the c.1100delC mutation, which is associated with an approximately 25% lifetime breast cancer risk. The distribution of this mutation shows wide geographical variation; it is more prevalent in the Northern European countries and less common, or even absent, in Southern Europe. In order to estimate the frequency of the CHEK2 c.1100delC mutation in Greek breast cancer patients, we genotyped 2,449 patients (2,408 females and 41 males), which was the largest series ever tested for c.1100delC. The mean age of female and male breast cancer diagnosis was 49 and 59 years, respectively. All patients had previously tested negative for the Greek BRCA1 founder and recurrent mutations. The CHEK2 c.1100delC mutation was detected in 0.16% (4 of 2,408) of females, all of whom were diagnosed with breast cancer before the age of 50 years. Only one c.1100delC carrier was reported with breast cancer family history. The present study indicates that the CHEK2 c.1100delC mutation does not contribute substantially to hereditary breast cancer in patients of Greek descent.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Expression of Connective Tissue Growth Factor in Male Breast Cancer: Clinicopathologic Correlations and Prognostic Value	Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF/CCN2) is a member of the CCN family of secreted proteins that are believed to play an important role in the development of neoplasia. In particular, CTGF has been reported to play an important role in mammary tumorigenesis and to have prognostic value in female breast cancer (FBC). The aim of the present study was to investigate clinicopathologic correlations and prognostic value of CTGF in male breast cancer (MBC) and to compare these findings with FBC. For this, we studied CTGF protein expression by immunohistochemistry in 109 MBC cases and 75 FBC cases. In MBC, stromal CTGF expression was seen in the majority of the cases 78% (85/109) with high expression in 31/109 cases (28.4%), but expression in tumor cells was only seen in 9.2% (10/109) of cases. High stromal CTGF expression correlated with high grade and high proliferation index (> 15%) assessed by MIB-1 immunohistochemical staining. CTGF expression in tumor epithelial cells did not correlate with any of the clinicopathologic features. In FBC, stromal CTGF expression positively correlated with mitotic count and tumor CTGF expression was associated with triple negative status of the tumor (p = 0.002). Neither stromal nor tumor epithelial cell CTGF expression had prognostic value in MBC and FBC. In conclusion, stromal CTGF expression was seen in a high percentage of MBC and was correlated with high grade and high proliferation index. In view of the important role of the microenvironment in cancer progression, this might suggest that stromal CTGF could be an interesting target for novel therapies and molecular imaging. However, the lack of association with prognosis warrants caution. The potential role of CTGF as a therapeutic target for triple negative FBC deserves to be further studied.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Comparison of breast cancer disease characteristics between female and male elderly patients		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The effectiveness of tamoxifen based on the experience of male breast cancer in our institution		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Tobacco and Alcohol in Relation to Male Breast Cancer: An Analysis of the Male Breast Cancer Pooling Project Consortium	Background: The etiology of male breast cancer is poorly understood, partly due to its relative rarity. Although tobacco and alcohol exposures are known carcinogens, their association with male breast cancer risk remains ill-defined.Methods: The Male Breast Cancer Pooling Project consortium provided 2,378 cases and 51,959 controls for analysis from 10 case-control and 10 cohort studies. Individual participant data were harmonized and pooled. Unconditional logistic regression was used to estimate study design-specific (case-control/cohort) ORs and 95% confidence intervals (CI), which were then combined using fixed-effects meta-analysis.Results: Cigarette smoking status, smoking pack-years, duration, intensity, and age at initiation were not associated with male breast cancer risk. Relations with cigar and pipe smoking, tobacco chewing, and snuff use were also null. Recent alcohol consumption and average grams of alcohol consumed per day were also not associated with risk; only one subanalysis of very high recent alcohol consumption (> 60 g/day) was tentatively associated with male breast cancer (ORunexposed referent = 1.29; 95% CI, 0.97-1.71; OR>0-<7 g/day referent = 1.36; 95% CI, 1.04-1.77). Specific alcoholic beverage types were not associated with male breast cancer. Relations were not altered when stratified by age or body mass index.Conclusions: In this analysis of the Male Breast Cancer Pooling Project, we found little evidence that tobacco and alcohol exposures were associated with risk of male breast cancer.Impact: Tobacco and alcohol do not appear to be carcinogenic for male breast cancer. Future studies should aim to assess these exposures in relation to subtypes of male breast cancer. (c) 2014 AACR.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A novel PALB2 truncating mutation in an Italian family with male breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease, accounting for similar to 1% of all breast cancer cases worldwide. Although other genes are also involved, predisposing genetic factors to MBC include germline mutations in the BRCA genes (BRCA2). Among the other genes, partner and localizer of BRCA2 (PALB2) is considered a moderate-penetrance breast cancer susceptibility gene that may also play a role in MBC predisposition. Thus, the aim of the present study was to determine the PALB2 gene status in 8 MBC cases selected from a cohort of 181 hereditary breast and/or ovarian cancer probands. We performed PALB2 mutational analysis by direct sequencing of 13 exons and adjacent intronic regions. This study showed the presence of a PALB2 truncating mutation in 1/8 (12.5%) cases. This novel mutation was named c.1285_1286delAinsTC (p.I429SfsX12) and is localized in exon 4 of PALB2, in the region encoding for the ChAM motif which is important for the efficient association of PALB2 to chromatin and for recruitment of the BRCA complex to accumulate RAD51 at double-strand break sites. Our findings indicate that PALB2 could be added to the list of breast cancer susceptibility genes also in families with MBC cases.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	delta-Catenin promotes the malignant phenotype in breast cancer	delta-Catenin is a member of the p120 catenin family. Similar to p120ctn, delta-catenin contains nine central Armadillo repeats and binds to the juxtamembrane domain (JMD) of E-cadherin. We used immunohistochemistry to detect delta-catenin expression in breast carcinoma (128 cases), and delta-catenin mRNA and protein expression was detected by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting (45 cases). The effects of delta-catenin on the activity of small GTPases and the biological behavior of breast cancer cells were explored by pulldown, flow cytometry, methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium, and Matrigel invasion assays. The results showed that delta-catenin expression increased in breast cancer tissues and was associated with a higher degree of malignancy (invasive lobular breast cancer, high tumor-node-metastasis stage, lymph node metastasis, and C-erbB-2+) and poor prognosis. Postoperative survival was shorter in patients with delta-catenin-positive expression than in patients with negative expression. delta-Catenin may regulate Cdc42/Rac1 activity, promote proliferation and invasion of breast cancer cells, and alter cell cycle progression. We conclude that delta-catenin tends to overexpress in breast carcinoma and promotes the malignant phenotype.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	BRCA2 Mutation in Male Breast Cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Mutivariate Clinic-Pathological Features Analysis for Detecting Unfavorable Independent Prognostic Parameters in Male Breast Cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Lymphatic and Blood Vessels in Male Breast Cancer	Background: It is assumed that lymphatic vessels are responsible for breast cancer dissemination. Patients and Methods: In 32 male breast carcinomas we evaluated the correlation between: (i) lymphatic vessel density (LVD), distribution of podoplanin-immunostained vessels (DPV), blood vessel density (BVD), infiltration of immune cells and (ii) known clinicopathological parameters. Results: Lymphatic and blood vessels were found in 77.8% and 100% of breast carcinomas, respectively. Double-negative estrogen and progesterone receptor tumors (ER-/PR-) presented significantly higher LVD than ER/PR positive cases, while high-grade tumors exhibited significantly higher DPV than low-grade carcinomas. We detected significantly higher frequency of vascular invasion in high-grade and double-negative carcinomas than in low-grade and ER/PR-positive ones, respectively. Conclusion: The relationship between high number of lymphatic vessels and high tumor grade or steroid receptor negativity might confirm the hypothesis regarding the influence of lymphangiogenesis on the formation of a more aggressive phenotype in male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	BRCA2 Mutation in Male Breast Cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Mutivariate Clinic-Pathological Features Analysis for Detecting Unfavorable Independent Prognostic Parameters in Male Breast Cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Axillary and internal mammary sentinel lymph node biopsy in male breast cancer patients: case series and review	Male breast cancer (MBC) is considered as a rare disease that accounts for less than 1% of all breast cancers, and its treatment has been based on the evidence available from female breast cancer. Axillary sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is now regarded as the standard of care for both female and male patients without clinical and imaging evidence of axillary lymph node metastases, while internal mammary SLNB has rarely been performed. Internal mammary chain metastasis is an independent prognostic predictor. Internal mammary SLNB should be performed to complete nodal staging and guide adjuvant therapy in MBC patients with preoperative lymphoscintigraphic internal mammary chain drainage. We report both axillary and internal mammary SLNB in two cases with MBC. Internal mammary sentinel lymph node did contain metastasis in one case.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Fulvestrant and male breast cancer: a pooled analysis	Male breast cancer is an uncommon malignancy; little is known regarding hormonal manipulations for tamoxifen-resistant male breast cancer patients. This is the first pooled analysis of the literature to synthesize all available data and to evaluate the efficacy and safety of fulvestrant in male breast cancer. This study was performed in accordance with the PRISMA guidelines. All studies that examined the efficacy of fulvestrant in male breast cancer, regardless of sample size, were considered eligible. The search strategy retrieved 31 articles; of these, five articles were eligible (23 patients) for this pooled analysis. The mean age of the study sample was 63.1 years. Adjuvant hormonal treatment was administered in 87.5 % of cases. Fulvestrant was given as first or second line in 40 % of patients, while as third line or beyond in 60 % of patients. 79.0 % of patients at fulvestrant administration had visceral metastases. Regarding best response, in 26.1 % PR was achieved, in 47.8 % of cases SD was recorded, whereas in 26.1 % of patients PD was noted. The median PFS was equal to 5 months. No grade 3 and 4 adverse events were recorded; of note, hot flashes were reported in 18.2 % of male breast cancer patients. Fulvestrant may potentially play a promising role in the optimal therapeutic strategy for male patients with breast cancer diagnosis. However, further clinical and pharmacokinetic investigations are more than warranted before fulvestrant use becomes a common practice in male breast cancer patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Detection of disseminated tumor cells in bone marrow and circulating tumor cells in blood of patients with early-stage male breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare malignant disease, accounting for < 1 % of all breast cancers (BCs). Treatment of men with early-stage BC is based on standards established in female BC. Prognostic or predictive markers to guide therapeutic decisions, in particular in early-stage male BC, are missing. Here, we explored whether disseminated tumor cells (DTC) in bone marrow (BM) and circulating tumor cells (CTC) in blood could be suitable biomarkers in male BC.Five male patients (pT2-4, pN0-2, M0) with hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative, and ductal primary BC (median age 70 years, range 51-73) were enrolled in a prospective study of patients with early-stage breast cancer. Here, we analyze the male subgroup. DTC in BM were analyzed before therapy and identified by immunocytochemistry using the pancytokeratin antibody A45B/B3. Blood samples (10 ml) were analyzed for CTC using the AdnaTest BreastCancer (AdnaGen AG, Langenhagen, Germany).DTC were found in three out of five male patients (60 %) with two DTC detected in one patient and one DTC detected in each of the other two patients. This is compared to a detection rate of 25-40 % in pooled analyses of female patients. CTC were only found in one of five patients. After a median follow-up time of 3 years (range 1-10 years), all patients were still alive and free of relapse.The prevalence of DTC and CTC in male BC seems comparable with female BC. No prognostic relevance could be documented in this small population. A prospective study or at least larger cases series will be required to assess the prognostic or predictive value of DTC and CTC in this rare disease.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathologic characteristics of breast cancer in BRCA-carriers and non-carriers in women 35 years of age or less	Purpose: Breast cancer diagnosed in women 35 years of age or less accounts for <2% of all breast cancer cases. Clinical and pathologic characteristics of early onset breast cancer are not well defined in BRCA mutation carriers and non-carriers.Methods: 194 women diagnosed with breast cancer at 35 years of age or less who had BRCA1/2 mutation testing were included in the study. Logistic regression models were fit to determine the associations between clinical variables and BRCA status.Results: Thirty-two (17%) and 12 (6%) patients had BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, respectively. BRCA1-carriers had a higher likelihood of a positive family history (FH) of breast and/or ovarian cancer (P = 0.001), or first-degree relatives diagnosed with breast cancer at <50 years old (P = 0.001) compared to non-carriers. BRCA2-carriers were more likely to have a FH of male breast cancer compared to non-carriers (P = 0.02). Among BRCA2-carriers, the age at first full-term pregnancy was younger in ERnegative cases compared with ERpositive cases (19.5 vs. 28.5 years old; P = 0.01). BRCA1-carriers with a later age at menarche were more likely to have a later stage at diagnosis (P = 0.04). Non-carriers with a lower BMI were more likely to have lymph node involvement (P = 0.03).Conclusions: Several associations were identified between reproductive risk factors or BMI and disease characteristics. Further characterization may result in a better understanding of the trends in young onset breast cancer in BRCA-carriers and non-carriers. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Association of SULT1A1 Arg(213)His polymorphism with male breast cancer risk: results from a multicenter study in Italy	Male breast cancer (MBC) is rare and poorly understood. Like female breast cancer (FBC), MBCs are highly sensitive to hormonal changes, and hyperestrogenism, specifically, represents a major risk factor for MBC. MBC is considered similar to late-onset, post-menopausal estrogen/progesteron receptors positive FBC (ER+/PR+). Sulfotransferase 1A1 (SULT1A1) is an enzyme involved in the metabolism of estrogens. Recently, SULT1A1 common functional polymorphism Arg(213)His (638G > A) variant has been found to be associated with increased breast cancer (BC) risk, particularly in post-menopausal women. For this reason, we decided to explore whether SULT1A1 Arg(213)His could exert an effect on MBC development. The primary aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of the SULT1A1 Arg(213)His polymorphism on MBC risk. The secondary aim was to investigate possible associations with relevant clinical-pathologic features of MBC. A total of 394 MBC cases and 786 healthy male controls were genotyped for SULT1A1 Arg(213)His polymorphism by PCR-RFLP and high-resolution melting analysis. All MBC cases were characterized for relevant clinical-pathologic features. A significant difference in the distribution of SULT1A1 Arg(213)His genotypes was found between MBC cases and controls (P < 0.0001). The analysis of genotype-specific risk showed a significant increased MBC risk in individuals with G/A (OR 1.97, 95 % CI 1.50-2.59; P < 0.0001) and A/A (OR 3.09, 95 % CI 1.83-5.23; P < 0.0001) genotypes in comparison to wild-type genotype, under co-dominant model. A significant association between SULT1A1 risk genotypes and HER2 status emerged. Results indicate that SULT1A1 Arg(213)His may act as a low-penetrance risk allele for developing MBC and could be associated with a specific tumor subtype associated with HER2 overexpression.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Androgen receptor expression in male breast cancer predicts inferior outcome and poor response to tamoxifen treatment	Objective: Androgen receptor (AR) plays an important role in male breast cancer (MBC). Additionally, endocrine therapy is the most important treatment in oestrogen receptor (ER)-positive advanced breast cancer. This study was aimed to investigate the role of AR in MBC treatment and prognosis and to analyse the relationship between AR and the effect of tamoxifen treatment in MBC patients.Methods: AR protein levels and other tumour characteristics (e. g. expression of ER (ESR1), PR (PGR), AR, HER2 (ERBB2) and Ki-67 (MKI67)) in breast cancer tissue from 102 MBC patients were determined using immunohistochemical analysis. Additionally, the relationship between AR status and clinicopathological features was analysed using the chi(2)-test. Association with survival was initially analysed using the Kaplan-Meier method and the log-rank test, and Cox regression analysis was used to adjust for other prognostic indicators.Results: High expression of AR was not correlated with T-stage, histological grade, HER2 status and the status of other sex hormone receptors, but was associated with lymph node metastases (P=0.032). AR-positive patients showed significantly shorter 5-year overall survival (OS) rates (P=0.045) and 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) rates (P=0.026) than AR-negative patients. By contrast, for patients who received tamoxifen therapy, AR-negative patients showed a higher clinical benefit rate than AR-positive patients (P=0.025). Additionally, the median TTP and OS were significantly different (P=0.02 for TTP; P=0.029 for OS).Conclusions: AR expression correlates strongly with both OS and DFS in patients with MBC. AR-positive patients can predict a poorer clinical outcome than AR-negative patients after adjuvant tamoxifen therapy.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer Laterality Does Not Influence Survival in a Large Modern Cohort: Implications for Radiation-Related Cardiac Mortality	Objectives: Radiation therapy for left-sided breast cancer has been associated with an elevated risk of cardiac mortality, based on studies predating treatment planning based on computed tomography. This study assessed the impact of tumor laterality on overall survival (OS) in a large cohort treated with modern techniques, to indirectly determine whether left-sided treatment remains associated with increased cardiac mortality.Methods and Materials: Patients treated for breast cancer with breast conserving surgery and adjuvant external beam radiation therapy were identified in the National Cancer Database, and OS was compared based on tumor laterality using Kaplan-Meier analysis. Separate analyses were performed for noninvasive and invasive carcinoma and for breast-only and breast plus regional nodal radiation therapy. Multivariate regression analysis of OS was performed with demographic, pathologic, and treatment variables as covariates to adjust for factors associated with breast cancer-specific survival.Results: We identified 344,831 patients whose cancer was diagnosed from 1998 to 2006 with a median follow-up time of 6.04 years (range, 0-14.17 years). Clinical, tumor, and treatment characteristics were similar between laterality groups. Regional nodal radiation was used in 14.2% of invasive cancers. No OS difference was noted based on tumor laterality for patients treated with breast-only (hazard ratio [HR] 0.984, P = .132) and breast plus regional nodal radiation therapy (HR 1.001, P = .957). In multivariate analysis including potential confounders, OS was identical between left and right sided cancers (HR 1.002, P = .874). No significant OS difference by laterality was observed when analyses were restricted to patients with at least 10 years of follow-up (n = 27,725), both in patients treated with breast-only (HR 0.955, P = .368) and breast plus regional nodal radiation therapy (HR 0.859, P = .155).Conclusions: Radiation therapy for left-sided breast cancer does not appear to increase the risk of death in this national database relative to right-sided tumors. Consequently, radiation therapy-induced cardiac disease may be less prominent than previously demonstrated. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The Impact of Race in Male Breast Cancer Outcome in the United States: A Population-Based Analysis of 4279 Patients		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer Prognostic Factors: Similarity to Female Counterparts With Propensity Scores and Matched-Pair Analysis		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Aromatase inhibitors for metastatic male breast cancer: molecular, endocrine, and clinical considerations	Male breast cancer is a rare condition. Aromatase inhibitors are widely used for treating metastatic male breast cancer patients. In this setting, their use is not substantiated by prospective clinical trials, but is rather driven by similarities supposedly existing with breast cancer in postmenopausal women. This oversimplified approach was questioned by studies addressing the molecular and endocrine roots of the disease. In this manuscript, we discuss relevant aspects of the current use of aromatase inhibitors in metastatic male breast cancer in light of the most updated evidence on the molecular landscape of the disease and the specific changes in the hormonal background occurring with aging. We further point to strategies for blocking multiple hormonal pathway nodes with the goal of improving their therapeutic potential. We searched PubMed from its inception until March 2014 for relevant literature on the use of aromatase inhibitors in metastatic male breast cancer. Selected terms were combined and used both as medical headings and text words. The reference list of the suitable manuscripts was inspected for further publications. Aromatase inhibitors represent the mainstay of treatment in the metastatic setting. Yet, efforts aimed at sharpening the therapeutic potential of aromatase inhibitors still pose a challenge due to the paucity of data. The choice of dual hormonal (or sequential) therapy combining aromatase inhibitors with a GnRH analogue may represent a valid alterative, particularly if informed by cancer- and patient-related features including molecular, endocrine, and clinic characteristics.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Nuclear HIF1A expression is strongly prognostic in sporadic but not familial male breast cancer	Male breast cancer is poorly understood with a large proportion arising in the familial context particularly with the BRCA2 germline mutation. As phenotypic and genotypic differences between sporadic and familial male breast cancers have been noted, we investigated the importance of a hypoxic drive in these cancers as this pathway has been shown to be of importance in familial female breast cancer. Expression of two major hypoxia-induced proteins, the hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF1A) and the carbonic anhydrase IX (CA9), examined within a large cohort including 61 familial (3 BRCA1, 28 BRCA2, 30 BRCAX) and 225 sporadic male breast cancers showed that 31% of all male breast cancers expressed either HIF1A (25%) and/or CA9 (8%) in the combined cohort. Expression of HIF1A correlated with an increased incidence of a second-major malignancy (P=0.04), histological tumor type (P=0.005) and basal phenotype (P=0.02). Expression of CA9 correlated with age (P=0.004) in sporadic cases and an increased tumor size (P=0.003). Expression of HIF1A was prognostic for disease-specific survival in sporadic male breast cancers (HR: 3.8, 95% CI: 1.5-9.8, P=0.006) but not within familial male breast cancer, whereas CA9 was only prognostic in familial male breast cancers (HR: 358.0, 95% CI: 9.3-13781.7, P=0.002) and not in sporadic male breast cancer. This study found that hypoxic drive is less prevalent in male breast cancer compared with female breast cancer, possibly due to a different breast microenvironment. The prognostic impact of HIF1A is greatest in sporadic male breast cancers with an alternate dominant mechanism for the oncogenic drivers suggested in high risk familial male breast cancers.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Molecular profiling of male breast cancer - Lost in translation?	Breast cancer is the most common cancer form in women and it has been extensively studied on the molecular level. Male breast cancer (MBC), on the other hand, is rare and has not been thoroughly investigated in terms of transcriptional profiles or genomic aberrations. Most of our understanding of MBC has therefore been extrapolated from knowledge of female breast cancer. Although differences in addition to similarities with female breast cancer have been reported, the same prognostic and predictive markers are used to determine optimal management strategies for both men and women diagnosed with breast cancer. This review is focused on prognosis for MBC patients, prognostic and predictive factors and molecular subgrouping; comparisons are made with female breast cancer. Information was collected from relevant literature on both male and female breast cancer from the MEDLINE database between 1992 and 2014.MBC is a heterogeneous disease, and on the molecular level many differences compared to female breast cancer have recently been revealed. Two distinct subgroups of MBC, luminal M1 and luminal M2, have been identified which differ from the well-established intrinsic subtypes of breast cancer in women. These novel subgroups of breast cancer therefore appear unique to MBC. Furthermore, several studies report inferior survival for men diagnosed with breast cancer compared to women. New promising prognostic biomarkers for MBC (e.g. NAT1) deserving further attention are reviewed. Further prospective studies aimed at validating the novel subgroups and recently proposed biomarkers for MBC are warranted to provide the basis for optimal patient management in this era of personalized medicine. (C) 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Combined microRNA and ER expression: a new classifier for familial and sporadic breast cancer patients		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Mutational characterisation of 400 breast cancers genomes		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Association of SULT1A1 Arg213His polymorphism with male breast cancer risk: a case-control study in Italy		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gene-specific methylation profiles in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Low-penetrance alleles and male breast cancer risk: Results from a multicenter study in Italy		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Features of breast cancer in developing countries, examples from North-Africa	Epidemiological features of breast cancer appear to be different in developing countries compared to Western countries, with notably large proportions of young patients, male patients and aggressive forms of the disease. Using North-Africa (Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Libya and Egypt) as an example, we document the magnitude and explore possible explanations for such patterns. Articles and reports published since the seventies were reviewed.Results show that breast cancer incidence in females is 2-4 times lower in North-Africa than in Western countries while incidence in males is similar. Consequently, the relative proportion of male breast cancer. is high (approximate to 2% of all breast cancers). Similarly, the incidence of aggressive forms of the disease, like inflammatory or triple negative breast cancer (in females), is not higher in North Africa than in Western countries, but their relative proportion in case series (up to 10% for inflammatory and 15-25% for triple negative) is significantly higher because of low incidence of other forms of the disease.In North Africa, the incidence among women aged 15-49 is lower than in Western countries, but the very low incidence among women aged more than 50, combined to the young age pyramid of North-Africa, makes the relative proportions of young patients substantially higher (50-60% versus 20% in France).Such epidemiological features result mainly from peculiar risk factor profiles, which are typical for many developing countries and include notably rapid changes in reproductive behaviours. These features have important implications for breast cancer control and treatment. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Misdiagnosed male breast cancer with an unknown primary tumor: A case report	Compared with female breast cancer, male breast cancer (MBC) has an extremely low morbidity, later staging and fewer breast tissues. The lumps are easier to invade in the center and the majority of the cases are positive for metastatic lymph node, with the typical clinical manifestation as a painless mass in partial breast. MBC with an unknown primary tumor is rare and is often prone to misdiagnosis, resulting in a delay in correct treatment. Such a case is extremely significant for clinical reference. The current study presents a 58-year-old male who developed a painless mass in the left armpit and received armpit mass biopsy and pathological examination which showed glandular cancer, with a high possibility of mammary primary tumor. The patient was administered four cycles of paclitaxel plus oxaliplatin chemotherapy. However, three months later, the patient identified novel disseminated lymph nodes in the left armpit. The initial pathological section and paraffin blocks were re-examined and the patient was finally diagnosed with breast invasive ductal carcinoma based on the metastases pathology and immunohistochemical examination. No breast mass was found on physical examination of the patient and the tumor markers, including cancer antigen 125 and carcinoembryonic antigen, were normal. No primary tumors were observed in the mammography and PET-CT and the primary tumor was not found following the left breast modified radical mastectomy.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gender-associated expression of tumor markers and a small gene set in breast carcinoma	Breast carcinomas in both genders share pathological features, although differences in incidence, prognosis and survival are reported. Expression of 33 genes was investigated in male and female breast carcinomas in association with ER, PR, HER-2/neu and EGF-receptor. Among 98 male breast cancers, 82 were ER+ and 78 were PR+. ER and PR protein levels were greater in males compared to females, although no differences were observed in ESR1 and PGR expression. A difference was observed in binding affinities of PR but not ER between genders. No differences were observed in HER-2/neu, EGFR protein, or patient age. Expression of NAT1, TBC1D9, IL6ST, RABEP1, PLK1 and LRBA was elevated in carcinomas of males compared to those of females, in which ER status appeared to be related to expression. Overexpression of protein products of these genes represents novel molecular targets for development of gender-specific therapeutics and companion diagnostics. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Anthropometric and Hormonal Risk Factors for Male Breast Cancer: Male Breast Cancer Pooling Project Results (vol 106, djt465, 2014)		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	CLINICOPATHOLOGIC CHARACTERISTICS OF MALE BREAST CANCER: A REPORT OF 21 CASES AT A RADIOTHERAPY CENTRE IN HAMADAN, IRAN		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Military Participants at US Atmospheric Nuclear Weapons Testing-Methodology for Estimating Dose and Uncertainty	Methods were developed to calculate individual estimates of exposure and dose with associated uncertainties for a sub-cohort (1,857) of 115,329 military veterans who participated in at least one of seven series of atmospheric nuclear weapons tests or the TRINITY shot carried out by the United States. The tests were conducted at the Pacific Proving Grounds and the Nevada Test Site. Dose estimates to specific organs will be used in an epidemiological study to investigate leukemia and male breast cancer. Previous doses had been estimated for the purpose of compensation and were generally high-sided to favor the veteran's claim for compensation in accordance with public law. Recent efforts by the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) to digitize the historical records supporting the veterans' compensation assessments make it possible to calculate doses and associated uncertainties. Our approach builds upon available film badge dosimetry and other measurement data recorded at the time of the tests and incorporates detailed scenarios of exposure for each veteran based on personal, unit, and other available historical records. Film badge results were available for approximately 25% of the individuals, and these results assisted greatly in reconstructing doses to unbadged persons and in developing distributions of dose among military units. This article presents the methodology developed to estimate doses for selected cancer cases and a 1% random sample of the total cohort of veterans under study. (C) 2014 by Radiation Research Society	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer: trends in international incidence in men and women	Background: The age-standardised incidence of breast cancer varies geographically, with rates in the highest-risk countries more than five times those in the lowest-risk countries.Methods: We investigated the correlation between male (MBC) and female breast cancer (FBC) incidence stratified by female age-group (<50 years, and >= 50 years) and used Poisson regression to examine male incidence rate ratios according to female incidence rates.Results: Age-adjusted breast cancer incidence rates for males and females share a similar geographic distribution (Spearman's correlation = 0.51; P <0.0001). A correlation with male incidence rates was found for the entire female population and for women aged 50 years and over. Breast cancer incidence rates in males aged <50 years were not associated with FBC incidence, whereas those in males aged >= 50 years were. MBC incidence displays a small `hook' similar to the Clemmesen's hook for FBC, but at a later age than the female hook.Interpretation: Further investigation of possible explanations for these patterns is warranted. Although the incidence of breast cancer is much lower in men than in women, it may be possible to identify a cause common to both men and women.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	MALE BREAST CANCER, IS THERE A CORRELATION BETWEEN PROGNOSTIC FACTORS AND MOLECULAR ANALYSIS?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	DO MALE AND FEMALE BREAST CANCER SHARE SIMILAR MICRORNA EXPRESSION PATTERNS?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Effect of a nutrient mixture on matrix metalloproteinase-9 dimers in various human cancer cell lines	Strong clinical and experimental evidence demonstrates association of elevated levels of matrix metalloproteinase MMP-9 with cancer progression, metastasis and shortened patient survival, as it plays a key role in tumor cell invasion and metastasis by digesting the basement membrane and ECM components. MMP-9 is secreted in both the monomeric and dimeric form. Although there is little research on MMP-9 dimers, some studies have shown the dimer to be associated with more aggressive tumor progression. Our objective was to study the relative secretion patterns of MMP-9 monomer and dimer in a variety of cancer cell lines and the effect of a nutrient mixture (NM) containing lysine, proline, ascorbic acid and green tea extract on MMP-9 secretion. The cancer cell lines were grown in their respective media, supplemented with 10% FBS, penicillin (100 U/ml) and streptomycin (100 mu g/ml) in 24-well tissue culture plates. At near confluence, the cells were treated with NM at 0,10, 50, 100, 500 and 1000 mu g/ml. Parallel sets of cultures were treated with PMA (100 ng/ml) for induction of MMP-9. Cell MMP-9 secretion was assayed by gelatinase zymography. MMP-9 dimer secretion patterns of cancer cells fell into different categories. We observed no MMP-9 dimer in prostate DU-145 and PC-3, pancreatic MIA-Pa-Ca2, colon HCT-116, bladder T-24, head and neck FaDu, glioblastoma A-172, T-98 and LN-18 and leukemia HL-60, Jurkat, and Raji cell lines. MMP-dimer secretion only with PMA induction was seen in breast MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231, uterine SK-UT-1, lung A-549, tongue SC-25, melanoma A2058, osteosarcoma U-2OS, rhabdomyosarcoma, fibrosarcoma HT-1080, chondrosarcoma SW-1350 and liposarcoma SW-872. Cervical HeLa and DoTc 2 4510, renal 786-0 and HCC SK-Hep-1 cells exhibited MMP-9 dimer without PMA treatment and increased secretion with PMA treatment. Sarcomas had the highest levels of MMP-9 monomer and dimer with and without PMA among these cancer cell lines. Cervical, uterine and male breast cancer cell lines showed the next highest levels of MMP-9, followed by breast cancer cell lines. Melanoma, renal, lung, head and neck and HCC showed lower levels and prostate, glioblastoma, bladder and leukemia cell lines the lowest. NM showed dose-dependent inhibition of MMP-9 monomer and dimer in all cell lines tested. In conclusion, high MMP-9 and dimer secretion levels correlated with the most aggressive cancer cell lines. NM was effective in inhibiting MMP-9 and dimer secretion in all cell lines tested, suggesting its therapeutic potential as an antimetastatic agent.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Characteristics, patient perceptions and emotional stressors of male breast cancer in South Africa		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Institut Oncologic del Valles and Hospital Clinic Barcelona from Catalonia		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Anthropometric and Hormonal Risk Factors for Male Breast Cancer: Male Breast Cancer Pooling Project Results	The etiology of male breast cancer is poorly understood, partly because of its relative rarity. Although genetic factors are involved, less is known regarding the role of anthropometric and hormonally related risk factors.In the Male Breast Cancer Pooling Project, a consortium of 11 casecontrol and 10 cohort investigations involving 2405 case patients (n 1190 from casecontrol and n 1215 from cohort studies) and 52013 control subjects, individual participant data were harmonized and pooled. Unconditional logistic regression generated study designspecific (casecontrol/cohort) odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs), with exposure estimates combined using fixed effects meta-analysis. All statistical tests were two-sided.Risk was statistically significantly associated with weight (highest/lowest tertile: OR 1.36; 95% CI 1.18 to 1.57), height (OR 1.18; 95% CI 1.01 to 1.38), and body mass index (BMI; OR 1.30; 95% CI 1.12 to 1.51), with evidence that recent rather than distant BMI was the strongest predictor. Klinefelter syndrome (OR 24.7; 95% CI 8.94 to 68.4) and gynecomastia (OR 9.78; 95% CI 7.52 to 12.7) were also statistically significantly associated with risk, relations that were independent of BMI. Diabetes also emerged as an independent risk factor (OR 1.19; 95% CI 1.04 to 1.37). There were also suggestive relations with cryptorchidism (OR 2.18; 95% CI 0.96 to 4.94) and orchitis (OR 1.43; 95% CI 1.02 to 1.99). Although age at onset of puberty and histories of infertility were unrelated to risk, never having had children was statistically significantly related (OR 1.29; 95% CI 1.01 to 1.66). Among individuals diagnosed at older ages, a history of fractures was statistically significantly related (OR 1.41; 95% CI 1.07 to 1.86).Consistent findings across casecontrol and cohort investigations, complemented by pooled analyses, indicated important roles for anthropometric and hormonal risk factors in the etiology of male breast cancer. Further investigation should focus on potential roles of endogenous hormones.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Risk Factors, Pathological and Phenotypic Features of Male Breast Cancer in Greece	Background: Breast cancer (BC) in males is a rare disease and comprises 0.5-1% of all BC cases. Due to its rarity, there are limited data regarding risk factors, biology and relevant treatment. Aim: A prospective observational study of demographic, clinical and histological characteristics of serially-admitted men with breast cancer was carried out from 1999 to 2009. Patients and Methods: Data were recorded and analyzed from a database including 1,315 cases of BC. Registered data concerned age, initial presentation, family and lifestyle history (risk factors), histological features, phenotypic subtypes and TNM staging. Results: Twenty two men with BC were identified, with a median age of 63 years. The most common initial presentation was a palpable lump in 12 patients, nipple contraction in three and ulceration in three. According to their medical history, nine men were overweight, 10 suffered from hypertension and 12 were smokers. The most prevalent phenotype was luminal-A followed by triple-negative type. BC in none of the cases was HER 2-amplified. The majority of cases were grade II or III and stage II or III. Conclusion: In the present small study, we confirm that BC in males is rare. It is a disease of middle-age and presents at advanced stages. Most of patients had 1-3 risk factors for BC. Expression of hormonal receptors occurs in the majority of BC tumors in males and with rarity in HER 2 amplification.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Molecular Characterization of Male Breast Cancer by Standardized Quantitative RT-PCR Analysis: A Large Genomic Study of 1,447 Male Breast Cancers		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer: Histological and Clinical Features		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Do Male and Female Breast Cancer Share mRNA Expression Patterns? Similarities and Differences		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer, Is There a Correlation between Prognostic Factors and Molecular Analysis?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Determinantes of Axyllary Sentinel Lymph Nodes Positivity: An Analysis of 985 Cases		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Independent Predictors of Survival in Male Breast Cancer: Unfavourable Impact of Older Age in a Multivariate Analysis of 166 Patients		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Molecular Characterization of Male Breast Cancer by Standardized Quantitative RT-PCR Analysis:A Large Genomic Study of 1,447 Male Breast Cancers		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer: Histological and Clinical Features		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer, Is There a Correlation between Prognostic Factors and Molecular Analysis?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Do Male and Female Breast Cancer Share mRNA Expression Patterns? Similarities and Differences		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Successful use of bevacizumb and paclitaxel in a male breast cancer with liver metastases	Breast cancer in men is a rare cancer manifestation. In this article we report a case of male breast cancer with liver metastases, which showed a good response to a combined treatment of bevacizumb and paclitaxel, suggesting a useful option for the first-line treatment of patients with recurrent HER2-negative male breast cancer. And further assessment in a randomized clinical trial is needed.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The 21-Gene Recurrence Score Assay (Oncotype DX (TM)) in Estrogen Receptor-Positive Male Breast Cancer: Experience in an Israeli Cohort	Objective: The 21-gene recurrence score (RS) assay has been widely adopted for use in early estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast cancer to assess the risk for distant recurrence and the potential benefit of adjuvant chemotherapy. The primary aim of this study was to assess RS distribution in Israeli male breast cancer (MBC) patients. Methods: The study population included 65 newly diagnosed Israeli MBC patients. Clinical and pathologic data were collected at the time of referral. Pathologic examinations were conducted at the pathology departments of the referring centers. The RS assay (Oncotype DX (TM)) was performed on paraffin-embedded tumor samples at Genomic Health laboratories. Results: The mean age of the patients was 65.1 years (range 38-88 years). Low-risk (RS <18), intermediate-risk (RS 18-30) and high-risk (RS >= 31) scores were noted in 29 patients (44.6%), 27 patients (41.5%) and 9 patients (13.9%), respectively. The distribution of RS in male patients was similar to the distribution in 2,455 female patients from Israel referred during the same time period. Conclusion: Our data suggest that the distribution of Oncotype DX RS in ER-positive MBC patients is similar to that of female breast cancer patients. (C) 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The biological markers and results of treatment in male breast cancer patients. The Cracow experience.	Male breast cancer is a rare form of carcinoma with an incidence rate of approximately 0.5-1% compared with cases of breast carcinoma as a whole. Male breast cancer reacts effectively to endocrine therapy because of a high frequency of hormone receptor expression.The aim of the present study was the assessment of correlations between stage, grade, expression of steroid receptors, basal/mesenchymal markers and proliferation index, as well as analysis of the impact of the above-mentioned parameters on overall (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) in the group of 32 male breast cancer patients, treated at the Centre of Oncology in Cracow.We showed the significant positive correlation between MIB-1 LI and tumor stage, and hormone receptors (ER or PgR) immunonegativity, and expression of EGFR, vimentin (p<0.05) and P-cadherin (the last at statistical border). The presence of any of basal or masenchymal markers correlated with a more advanced tumor stage. Moreover tumors without vimentin expression were characterised by lower MIB-1 LI and were more frequently EGFR immunonegative.We found that hormone receptor negativity, vimentin immunopositivity and high MIB-1 LI are significant independent indicators of poor OS and DFS for male breast cancer patients (p<0.05).	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Columnar cell-like changes in the male breast	Aims Columnar cell lesions are known as a link between normal breast and low grade neoplastic lesions in female, but have not been established in the male breast. This study evaluated the presence of ducts showing columnar cell-like features in the male breast.Methods Seventy-one consecutive surgical resections from men (6 invasive breast carcinoma of grade 3, 1 atypical ductal hyperplasia and 64 other lesions) were reviewed to identify foci of dilated ducts with columnar epithelial cells, and their morphological features including apical snouts, intraluminal secretions and calcifications were assessed. The expression of CK5/6 and estrogen receptor (ER) was evaluated immunohistochemically. Clinicopathological features including patients' age, histological diagnosis and gynaecomastoid hyperplasia were documented.Results Ducts showing columnar cell-like features were identified in 39 cases, morphologically as distended ducts with round or undulating outline. There was an outer layer of myoepithelial cells and an inner layer of columnar luminal cells showing apical snouts, but without intraluminal secretions or calcifications. Immunohistochemically, these columnar epithelial cells were negative for CK5/6 in 38/39 cases and all were ER heterogeneously positive. These changes were associated with older age, but their incidence did not differ whether they were associated with invasive breast carcinoma, atypical ductal hyperplasia and other lesions.Conclusions In the male breast, there is an entity sharing morphological features and immunohistochemical profile of columnar cell lesions.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Research into 'night shift work' and cancer: on the evolution of 'exposure' classification		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: Opportunities for increased research funding and clinical trial access		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Whole genome methylation patterns in male and female breast cancer - Unexpected findings		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	y Male breast carcinoma: A clinicopathological and immunohistochemical characterization study		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	MALE BREAST CANCER: CLINICAL PRESENTATION, DIAGNOSIS, TREATMENT	Despite male breast cancer is rare in occurrence, it is a serious problem. In 2012, 130 men in Ukraine got breast cancer that constituted 0.74% from all patients with mentioned pathology detected in the course of year. E'very year in Ukraine approximately 100 men die from breast cancer. Still many aspects of male breast cancer remain unstudied. It occurs since information about mentioned disease is mainly based on retrospective analysis of small groups. Treatment of men, who got breast cancer, is based on knowledge, which has been obtained in treatment of women vvith this pathology. This article is based on the results of analysis of 168 cases of breast cancer in men, who have been examined and treated in the period from 1956 to 2012. In paper the peculiarities of clinical manifestations of male breast cancer have been determined, the optimal volume of diagnostic procedures in men with suspicion of breast cancer has been established, the manunographic signs have been detected and the possible histological variants of disease have been determined, clinical cmffse peculiarities of male breast cancer have been defmed, the most essential factors of prognosis of the disease have been fixed. Furthermore, in article optimal volume of surgical treatment of male breast cancer has been substantiated, the role and place of radiotherapy in treatment of this pathology has been determined. It has been proved that adjuvant polychemotherapy should be applied to the patients with male breast cancer independently from stage of process. Also optimal schemes of this kind of treatment have been determined. The efficacy of hormonal therapy vvith antiestrogen in patients with positive receptors of steroid hormones and at presence of unfavorable prognostic factors of disease has been demonstrated. Die inefficiency of orchiectomy as one of the widespread kinds of hormonal therapy of male breast cancer has been defined.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Therapeutic strategies in male breast cancer: Clinical implications of chromosome 17 gene alterations and molecular subtypes	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease. To date, therapy is mainly based on studies and clinical experiences with breast cancer in women. Only little is known about molecular typing of MBC, particularly with regard to potential biological predictors for adjuvant therapy. In female breast cancer tumors with chromosome 17 centromere (CEP17) duplication, HER2 and/or Topoisomerase II alpha (Topo II-alpha) gene alterations have been suggested to be associated with poor prognosis and increased sensitivity to anthracycline-containing regimens.In a well characterized cohort of 96 primary invasive MBC, we studied CEP17, HER2 and Topo II-alpha alterations by fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH), and expression of hormone receptors (HR), HER2 and Ki67 by immunohistochemistry to define molecular subtypes. Tumor characteristics and follow-up data were available and correlated with molecular findings.HER2 amplification and Topo II-alpha amplification/deletion were exceptionally rare in MBC (6.3% and 3.1%, respectively). CEP17 polysomy were found in 9.4% of tumors. HER2, Topo II-alpha and CEP17 gene alterations were not correlated to patients outcome. 96.9% of our cases were HR positive. Triple negative tumors were found in only 3.1% of the cases. In nodal negative tumors luminal A subtypes were significantly associated with better overall survival.Our results provide evidence for a predominant male breast cancer phenotype, characterized by HR expression and a lack of HER2/Topo II-alpha alterations and CEP17 duplicates. Therefore, the impact of anthracycline sensitivity linked to HER2/Topo II-alpha alterations as found in female breast cancer has low clinical significance for this specific male breast cancer phenotype. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Performance of BOADICEA and BRCAPRO genetic models and of empirical criteria based on cancer family history for predicting BRCA mutation carrier probabilities: A retrospective study in a sample of Italian cancer genetics clinics	Purpose: To evaluate in current practice the performance of BOADICEA and BRCAPRO risk models and empirical criteria based on cancer family history for the selection of individuals for BRCA genetic testing.Patients and methods: The probability of BRCA mutation according to the three tools was retrospectively estimated in 918 index cases consecutively undergone BRCA testing at 15 Italian cancer genetics clinics between 2006 and 2008.Results: 179 of 918 cases (19.5%) carried BRCA mutations. With the strict use of the criteria based on cancer family history 173 BRCA (21.9%) mutations would have been detected in 789 individuals. At the commonly used 10% threshold of BRCA mutation carrier probability, the genetic models showed a similar performance [PPV (38% and 37%), sensitivity (76% and 77%) and specificity (70% and 69%)]. Their strict use would have avoided around 60% of the tests but would have missed approximately 1 every 4 carriers.Conclusion: Our data highlight the complexity of BRCA testing referral in routine practice and question the strict use of genetic models for BRCA risk assessment. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Management of Male Breast Cancer in the United States: A Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results Analysis	Purpose: To analyze the stage-specific management of male breast cancer (MBC) with surgery and radiation therapy (RT) and relate them to outcomes and to female breast cancer (FBC).Methods and Materials: The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database was queried for all primary invasive MBC and FBC diagnosed from 1973 to 2008. Analyzable data included age, race, registry, grade, stage, estrogen and progesterone receptor status, type of surgery, and use of RT. Stage was defined as localized (LocD): confined to the breast; regional (RegD): involving skin, chest wall, and/or regional lymph nodes; and distant: M1. The primary endpoint was cause-specific survival (CSS).Results: A total of 4276 cases of MBC and 718,587 cases of FBC were identified. Male breast cancer constituted 0.6% of all breast cancer. Comparing MBC with FBC, mastectomy (M) was used in 87.4% versus 38.3%, and breast-conserving surgery in 12.6% versus 52.6% (P<10(-4)). For males with LocD, CSS was not significantly different for the 4.6% treated with lumpectomy/RT versus the 70% treated with M alone (hazard ratio [HR] 1.33; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.49-3.61; P=.57). Postmastectomy RT was delivered in 33% of males with RegD and was not associated with an improvement in CSS (HR 1.11; 95% CI 0.88-1.41; P=.37). There was a significant increase in the use of postmastectomy RT in MBC over time: 24.3%, 27.2%, and 36.8% for 1973-1987, 1988-1997, and 1998-2008, respectively (P<.0001). Cause-specific survival for MBC has improved: the largest significant change was identified for men diagnosed in 1998-2008 compared with 1973-1987 (HR 0.73; 95% CI 0.60-0.88; P=.0004).Conclusions: Surgical management of MBC is dramatically different than for FBC. The majority of males with LocD receive M despite equivalent CSS with lumpectomy/RT. Postmastectomy RT is greatly underutilized in MBC with RegD, although a CSS benefit was not demonstrated. Outcomes for MBC are improving, attributable to improved therapy and its use in this unscreened population. (C) 2013 Elsevier Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	2nd Breast Cancer In Young Women Conference, Tel Aviv, ISRAEL, November 05 -07, 2014	This meeting, which focuses on, different types of breast cancer and their treatment methods, contains approximately, 38 invited abstracts and 89 poster presentations, all written in English, on a variety of topics. Topics include advances in advanced triple negative breast cancer, locally advanced breast cancer- epidemiology and geographic differences, BRCA-related advanced breast cancer, optimal pain management, clinical issues, surgical oncology, radiation oncology, and medical oncology. Other topics include visualizing treatment and outcomes in metastatic breast cancer, clinicopathological evaluation of brain metastases recurrence in metastatic HER2+ breast cancer patients, and supportive and palliative care.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Analysis of copy number changes on chromosome 16q in male breast cancer by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification	Gene copy number changes have an important role in carcinogenesis and could serve as potential biomarkers for prognosis and targets for therapy. Copy number changes mapping to chromosome 16 have been reported to be the most frequent alteration observed in female breast cancer and a loss on 16q has been shown to be associated with low grade and better prognosis. In the present study, we aimed to characterize copy number changes on 16q in a group of 135 male breast cancers using a novel multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification kit. One hundred and twelve out of 135 (83%) male breast cancer showed copy number changes of at least one gene on chromosome 16, with frequent loss of 16q (71/135; 53%), either partial (66/135; 49%) or whole arm loss (5/135; 4%). Losses on 16q were thereby less often seen in male breast cancer than previously described in female breast cancer. Loss on 16q was significantly correlated with favorable clinicopathological features such as negative lymph node status, small tumor size, and low grade. Copy number gain of almost all genes on the short arm was also significantly correlated with lymph node negative status. A combination of 16q loss and 16p gain correlated even stronger with negative lymph node status (n = 112; P = 0.012), which was also underlined by unsupervised clustering. In conclusion, copy number loss on 16q is less frequent in male breast cancer than in female breast cancer, providing further evidence that male breast cancer and female breast cancer are genetically different. Gain on 16p and loss of 16q identify a group of male breast cancer with low propensity to develop lymph node metastases.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer and 5 alpha-Reductase Inhibitors Finasteride and Dutasteride	Purpose: We examined the association between 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors and male breast cancer.Materials and Methods: Study participants were men 40 to 85 years old, with prescription and medical coverage, enrolled in the United States IMS LifeLink (TM) Health Plan claims database between 2001 and 2009. Cases required a primary breast cancer diagnosis (ICD-9-CM 175. x) on 2 different dates and a procedural code for mastectomy or lumpectomy/partial mastectomy with evidence of continuous care (radiation/chemotherapy or diagnoses in 2 or more months). Eligible controls were within 5 years in age and had duration of prior health care enrollment within 6 weeks. Risk set sampling selected 20 controls per case. We assessed the rate ratio for male breast cancer with 5 alpha-reductase inhibitor exposure using conditional logistic regression. Analyses were stratified by duration of health care enrollment before diagnosis (1 year or more, 2 years or more and 3 years or more), each incremental 180 and 365 days of cumulative 5a-reductase inhibitor exposure, and period specific time frames before diagnosis (years 1, 2 and 3).Results: We identified 339 breast cancer cases matched to 6,780 controls. No statistically significant associations were observed between 5 alpha-reductase inhibitors and breast cancer regardless of exposure assessment before the index date (1 year or moredRR 0.70, 95% CI 0.34-1.45; 2 years or moredRR 0.59, 95% CI 0.24-1.48; or 3 years or moredRR 0.75, 95% CI 0.27-2.10). Each subsequent 180 days (RR 1.02, 95% CI 0.67-1.53) and 365 days (RR 1.03, 95% CI 0.45-2.37) of cumulative 5a-reductase inhibitor therapy and period specific rate ratios also showed null associations.Conclusions: The lack of an association in our study suggests that the development of breast cancer should not influence the prescribing of 5a-reductase inhibitor therapy.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Analytical study of performance of linear discriminant analysis in stochastic settings	This paper provides exact analytical expressions for the first and second moments of the true error for linear discriminant analysis (LDA) when the data are univariate and taken from two stochastic Gaussian processes. The key point is that we assume a general setting in which the sample data from each class do not need to be identically distributed or independent within or between classes. We compare the true errors of designed classifiers under the typical i.i.d. model and when the data are correlated, providing exact expressions and demonstrating that, depending on the covariance structure, correlated data can result in classifiers with either greater error or less error than when training with uncorrelated data. The general theory is applied to autoregressive and moving-average models of the first order, and it is demonstrated using real genomic data. Published by Elsevier Ltd.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The Landscape of Candidate Driver Genes Differs between Male and Female Breast Cancer	The rapidly growing collection of diverse genome-scale data from multiple tumor types sheds light on various aspects of the underlying tumor biology. With the objective to identify genes of importance for breast tumorigenesis in men and to enable comparisons with genes important for breast cancer development in women, we applied the computational framework COpy Number and EXpression In Cancer (CONEXIC) to detect candidate driver genes among all altered passenger genes. Unique to this approach is that each driver gene is associated with several gene modules that are believed to be altered by the driver. Thirty candidate drivers were found in the male breast cancers and 67 in the female breast cancers. We identified many known drivers of breast cancer and other types of cancer, in the female dataset (e. g. GATA3, CCNE1, GRB7, CDK4). In contrast, only three known cancer genes were found among male breast cancers; MAP2K4, LHP, and ZNF217. Many of the candidate drivers identified are known to be involved in processes associated with tumorigenesis, including proliferation, invasion and differentiation. One of the modules identified in male breast cancer was regulated by THY1, a gene involved in invasion and related to epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Furthermore, men with THY1 positive breast cancers had significantly inferior survival. THY1 may thus be a promising novel prognostic marker for male breast cancer. Another module identified among male breast cancers, regulated by SPAG5, was closely associated with proliferation. Our data indicate that male and female breast cancers display highly different landscapes of candidate driver genes, as only a few genes were found in common between the two. Consequently, the pathobiology of male breast cancer may differ from that of female breast cancer and can be associated with differences in prognosis; men diagnosed with breast cancer may consequently require different management and treatment strategies than women.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	An update on male breast cancer and future directions for research and treatment	Male breast cancer is a rare disease for which treatment has been based on the evidence available from female breast cancer. The new genomic tools can better characterize the biology of breast cancer. It is hoping that these will help to clarify possible differences of breast cancer behaviour in male patients, which will have a major impact on treatment strategies and on the conduct of clinical trials in this setting. In this review we will summarize available information on epidemiology, risk factors for breast cancer in men, the new insights of the biology of this disease, current recommendations for treatment and insights for future research. (C) 2013 Elsevier By. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of clinico: Pathologic findings of breast carcinoma in a general hospital in Southern India	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Breast cancer is the second most common cancer in the Indian female population. As per our hospital data, breast cancer is also found to be the second leading malignancy in women. Hence, we undertook this study to evaluate the clinical profile, histopathologic types, grade, stage and the prognosis of the disease in our patients. Majority of our patients are from rural areas. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was undertaken over a period of three years comprising of 178 patients who underwent modified radical mastectomy following preliminary diagnosis of carcinoma on fine needle aspiration cytology or histopathological examination of the lumpectomy or trucut biopsy specimens. Clinico-pathological evaluation was done in all of these cases following standard protocols. RESULT: The study comprised of 175 female patients and 3 male patients in the age range of 28 to 76 years. Majority (111/62.3%) of the cases were within the age range of 31-50 years of age with mean age of 48.7 years. Two females had bilateral breast cancer and one female had synchronous papillary serous cystadenocarcinoma of the ovary. Invasive ductal carcinoma no special type was the most common histopathologic pattern, and was seen in 172 (95.5%) cases. Most tumors were Scarff Bloom Richardson grade II and American Joint Committee on Cancer pathologic stage II. Prognostically, majority of tumors (49.5%) was assessed as 'good' as per the Nottingham prognostic index score. CONCLUSIONS: This study gave an insight to the clinico-pathological profile of breast cancer in our area. Long term study with follow up of the patient is needed for better understanding of the case.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Metastatic Male Breast Cancer with Rectal Involvement: First Reported Case		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Poorer Survival of Male Breast Cancer Compared with Female Breast Cancer Patients May Be Due to Biological Differences	The objective of the study was to compare disease-free survival and overall survival in a group of matched males and females with breast cancer, and to analyze possible treatment- and gender-related differences.We retrospectively analyzed the data of 150 operable male breast cancer patients treated in our hospital from December 1980 to June 2012. Each male breast cancer patient recorded in the database was matched with two female breast cancer patients of equal stage. Prognosis in terms of disease-free survival and overall survival was evaluated.The mean age at diagnosis was 58.6 9.7 years for males and 57.2 10.3 years for females. The median follow-up was 69 months for males and 81 months for females. Significant differences were identified for tumor location, hormone receptor status, molecular subtypes and hormone therapy between the two groups. Monofactorial analysis demonstrated that tumor size, lymph node state, American Joint Committee on Cancer stage, molecular subtypes and adjuvant chemotherapy treatment were prognostic factors in male breast cancer patients. The 5- and 10-year disease-free survival rates were 65.6 and 40.1 for males, and 74.9 and 51.5 for females, respectively. The 5- and 10-year overall survival rates were 72.9 and 53.9 for males, and 83.2 and 68.5 for females, respectively. There was significantly difference in disease-free survival and overall survival between the two matched groups (P 0.002).Male breast cancer patients had inferior outcome despite of equal stage in comparison with matched female breast cancer patients, which demonstrates that biological differences may contribute to the worse prognosis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The prognostic significance of molecular subtype for male breast cancer: A 10-year retrospective study	Background: Male breast cancer (MBC) is rare. Molecular subtype has been utilized widely in female breast cancer. But the relationship between subtype and prognosis in MBC patients is still unknown. We aim to study the impact of molecular subtype on the prognosis of MBC.Methods: We identified MBC cases from 1990 to 2011 retrospectively; molecular subtype was assigned by immunohistochemistry. We compared overall survival in different subtypes by Kaplan-Meier method and COX proportional hazard regression model.Results: 68 patients with MBC were included in analysis with 115 months of a median follow-up time. Comparing to non-luminal A (subtypes of Luminal B, HER2 over-express and Basal-like) group, patients with luminal A had a lower recurrent rate and better overall survival (10-year survival rate was 78.0% vs 67.0%, mean survival time 197.46 +/- 12.22 months vs 146.51 +/- 16.88 months, p < 0.05).Conclusion: Molecular subtype may have prognosis-predicting value for MBC. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: clinical features and multimodal treatment in a retrospective survey analysis at Italian centers	Aims and background. We report a collection of data about early breast cancer in male patients from 13 Italian institutions.Methods and study design. We obtained data from patient charts and performed statistical analysis. The primary end points were overall survival and disease-free survival.Results. A total of 205 men with invasive breast cancer was identified, with a median age of 66 years. Pathological characteristics were heterogeneous for T stage, N stage and HER2 status. Histological subtype was predominantly ductal infiltrating carcinoma. Most of them were hormone receptor positive. Mastectomy was the most common strategy Postsurgical treatment was not standardized. Patients with large tumors were more likely to be treated with chemotherapy. Disease recurrence was associated with an ER+ and PR+ status.Conclusions., We identified a correlation between relapse and hormone receptor expression, as is the case in female breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: A 15-year single institution experience		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer: Study of a Large Series From a Single Institution		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Tissue Microarray Cores vs Whole Sections for the Assessment of Tumour-Stromal Ratio in Rare Cancer Using Male Breast Cancer as an Exemplar		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Urinary phytoestrogen levels related to idiopathic male infertility in Chinese men	Phytoestrogens (PEs) are naturally occurring chemical constituents of certain plants. The internal PE exposures, mainly from diet, vary among different populations and in different regions due to various eating habits. To investigate the potential relationship between urinary PE levels and idiopathic male infertility and semen quality in Chinese adult males, 608 idiopathic infertile men and 469 fertile controls were recruited by eligibility screening procedures. Individual exposure to PEs was measured using UPLC-MS/MS as spot urinary concentrations of 6 PEs (daidzein, DAI; equol, EQU; genistein, GEN; naringenin, NAR; coumestrol, COU; and secoisolariciresinol, SEC), which were adjusted with urinary creatinine (CR). Semen quality was assessed by sperm concentration, number per ejaculum and motility. We found that exposures to DAI, GEN and SEC were significantly associated with idiopathic male infertility (P-value for trend = 0.036; 0.002; and 0.0001, respectively), while these exposures had stronger association with infertile subjects with at least one abnormal semen parameter than those with all normal semen parameters. Exposures to DAI, GEN and SEC were also related to idiopathic male infertility with abnormal sperm concentration, number per ejaculum and motility (P-value for trend < 0.05), while these exposures had stronger association with the infertile men with abnormal sperm number per ejaculum. These findings provide the evidence that PE exposures are related to male reproductive function and raise a public health concern because that exposure to PEs is ubiquitous in China. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Histopathological and immunohistochemical findings in four primary papillary breast tumours, without mammaglobin expression		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The Effect of Antineoplastic Drugs in a Male Spontaneous Mammary Tumor Model	Male breast cancer is a rare disease. The limited number of clinical cases has led to the primary treatments for men being derived from female breast cancer studies. Here the transgenic strain FVB/N-Tg(MMTV-PyVT)634Mul/J ( also known as PyVT) was used as a model system for measuring tumor burden and drug sensitivity of the antineoplastic drugs tamoxifen, cisplatin, and paclitaxel on tumorigenesis at an early stage of mammary carcinoma development in a male mouse model. Cisplatin treatment significantly reduced tumor volume, while paclitaxel and tamoxifen did not attenuate tumor growth. Cisplatin treatment was shown to induce apoptosis, grossly observed by reduced tumor formation, through reduced Bcl-2 and survivin protein expression levels with an increase in caspase 3 expression compared to control tumors. Tamoxifen treatment significantly altered the hormone receptor expression levels of the tumor, while additionally upregulating Bcl-2 and Cyclin D1. This suggests an importance in hormonal signaling in male breast cancer pathogenesis. The results of this study provide valuable information toward the better understanding of male breast cancer and may help guide treatment decisions.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer arising in ectopic axillary breast tissue: A diagnostic dilemma	Male breast cancer arising in ectopic axillary breast tissue is a rare occurrence and few cases have been reported in the literature. Due to its rarity, male axillary breast cancer is easy to misdiagnose. As for adenocarcinoma in the axilla, it is difficult to identify whether the origin is the mammary tissue or the skin appendages, particularly in cases where there is a poor differentiation. The present study reports the case of a male patient with a right axillary lesion that had been present for 6 months. A histological evaluation revealed the features of a poorly-differentiated adenocarcinoma with regards to the pathological report. The patient was diagnosed with a metastatic adenocarcinoma with unknown primary origin. However, following 4 cycles of intensive chemotherapy, the patient experienced bone metastasis while the local lesion was in partial remission. Further immunohistochemistry confirmed its mammary origin. There is limited literature relating to male ectopic axillary breast cancer, and a high probability of misdiagnosis of this disease.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The diagnostic value of clinical examination and imaging used as part of an age-related protocol when diagnosing male breast disease: An audit of 1141 cases from a single centre	Triple assessment in men varies, possibly in response to currently published non-specific guidance. The study aims to assess the efficacy of triple assessment as part of an age related protocol currently used in the clinical setting.1141 referrals between 01.01.01 and 31.12.09 were evaluated. Patient age ranged from 29 to 89 years. Mammography (M) was performed in men >= 35years. Sensitivity for clinical examination (CE) was 64.0%, M 77.8%, US 92.0%. 25 cancers were diagnosed, 24 aged >40years, 1 aged 29. 2 presented with nipple discharge. The cancer <40years was diagnosed with CE and US, all others had suspicious CE and/or M necessitating US and biopsy.We suggest a protocol incorporating mammography in men >40years would capture all cancers. Combined specificities approaching 100% suggest men >40 years scored benign after CE and M warrant no further assessment. Bloody nipple discharge is a suspicious sign and the reassurance of non-bloody discharge should be treated with caution. (C) 2013 Published by Elsevier Ltd.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Factors for Male Breast Cancer: Similarity to Female Counterparts	Aim: To assess whether prognostic factors in male (MBC) and female (FBC) breast cancer have similar impact on survival. Patients and Methods: Charts for men and women diagnosed with breast cancer referred to the London Regional Cancer Program (LRCP) were reviewed. Patients with distant metastatic diseases were excluded. Data on prognostic factors including age, nodal status, resection margin, use of hormonal therapy, chemotherapy with/without hormone and radiation therapy (RT), overall survival (OS), cancer-specific survival (CSS), and disease-free survival (DFS) were analyzed. Survival estimates were obtained using the Kaplan-Meier methodology. The Cox regression interaction was used to compare male and female differences in prognostic factors. Results: From 1963-2006 there were 75 cases of MBC and 1,313 of FBC totaling in 1,388 breast cancer cases. The median age of the cohort was 53 (range=23-90) years. The median follow-up was 90 (range=0.4-339) months. Of the prognostic factors considered, nodal status had a significant Cox regression interaction. For OS, p=0.001 with hazard ratios of 0.83 (95% confidence interval CI=0.42-1.64) and 2.88 (95% CI-2.36-3.52) for males and females, respectively. For CSS p=0.041 with hazard ratios of 1.22 (95% CI=0.45-3.27) and 3.52 (95% CI=2.76-4.48) for males and females, respectively. For node-positive cases, distant disease recurrence-free survival was worse for MBC (log rank, p<0.001). Conclusion: This large series showed that the nodal status influences survival differently in MBC and FBC. The findings of this study need confirmation from a more complete prospective database and further investigations on improving high-risk node-positive MBC management are warranted.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	SULT1A1 gene deletion in BRCA2-associated male breast cancer: a link between genes and environmental exposures?	SULT1A1, a member of sulfotransferase superfamily, is a drug and hormone metabolizing enzyme involved in the metabolism of a variety of potential mammary carcinogens of endogenous and exogenous origin. Interestingly, the metabolic activity of SULT1A1 can be affected by variations in gene copy number. Male Breast Cancer (MBC) is a rare disease and less investigated disease compared to female BC (FBC). As in FBC, the concurrent effects of genetic risk factors, particularly BRCA2 mutations, increased exposure to estrogens and environmental carcinogens play a relevant role in MBC. By quantitative real-time PCR with TaqMan probes, we investigated the presence of SULT1A1 gene copy number variations (CNVs) in a series of 72 MBCs. SULT1A1 gene deletion was observed in 10 of the 72 MBCs (13.9%). In a multivariate analysis association between BRCA2 mutation and SULT1A1 gene deletion emerged (p=0.0005). Based on the evidence that the level of SULT1A1 enzyme activity is correlated with CNV, our data suggest that in male breast tumors SULT1A1 activity may be decreased. Thus, it can be hypothesized that in a proportion of MBCs, particularly in BRCA2-associated MBCs, the level of estrogens and environmental carcinogens exposure might be increased suggesting a link between gene and environmental exposure in the pathogenesis of MBC.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Poor compliance with breast cancer treatment guidelines in men undergoing breast-conserving surgery	Lumpectomy is performed in a small but growing proportion of men with breast cancer. It is unknown whether men undergoing breast-conserving surgery (BCS) receive care compliant with breast cancer treatment guidelines. Patients with breast cancer in the surveillance, epidemiology, and end results (SEER) database who underwent lumpectomy between 1983 and 2009 were identified. Gender differences in the receipt of lymph node staging and adjuvant radiation therapy were assessed. Multivariate logistic regression was utilized to evaluate the independent association of gender on these outcomes. The influence of gender on breast cancer-specific survival (BCSS) was analyzed. 382,030 of 824,408 (46.3 %) women compared to 712 of 6,039 (11.8 %) men with breast cancer underwent lumpectomy. Men were older, more likely to be black, less likely to have stage I disease and more likely to have stage IV disease. Only 59.2 % of men had lymph nodes sampled at the time of surgery compared to 81.6 % of women (p < 0.0001). In addition, only 35.4 % of men received adjuvant breast radiation therapy compared to 69.8 % of women (p < 0.0001). After controlling for age, race, stage, grade, and year of diagnosis, female gender was significantly associated with receiving adjuvant radiation therapy (OR 2.9, 95 % CI 2.4-3.4) and lymph node staging (OR 1.6, 95 % CI 1.3-1.90). Five- and ten-year BCSS were 88.0 and 83.5 % for men compared to 93.2 and 88.2 % for women (p < 0.001). Men with breast cancer are less likely to receive lymph node staging or adjuvant radiation therapy following BCS compared to women.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer According to Tumor Subtype and Race A Population-Based Study	BACKGROUND: Breast cancer occurs rarely in men. To the authors' knowledge, no population-based estimates of the incidence of human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer or of the distribution of breast cancer subtypes among male breast cancer patients have been published to date. Therefore, the objective of the current study was to explore breast tumor subtype distribution by race/ethnicity among men in the large, ethnically diverse population of California. METHODS: This study included men who were diagnosed with invasive breast cancer between 2005 and 2009 with known estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) (together, hormone receptor [HR]) status and HER2 status reported to the California Cancer Registry. Among the men with HR-positive tumors, survival probabilities between groups were compared using log-rank tests. RESULTS: Six hundred six patients were included. The median age at diagnosis was 68 years. Four hundred ninety-four men (81.5%) had HR-positive tumors (defined as ER-positive and/or PR-positive and HER2-negative). Ninety men (14.9%) had HER2-positive tumors, and 22 (3.6%) had triple receptor-negative (TN) tumors. Among the patients with HR-positive tumors, non-Hispanic black men and Hispanic men were more likely to have PR-negative tumors than non-Hispanic white men. No statistically significant differences in survival were observed according to tumor subtype (P = .08). Differences in survival according to race/ethnicity were observed among all patients (P = .087) and among those with HR-positive tumors (P = .0170), and non-Hispanic black men had poorer outcomes. CONCLUSIONS: In this large, representative cohort of men with breast cancer, the distribution of tumor subtypes was different from that reported for women and varied by patient race/ethnicity. Non-Hispanic black men were more likely to have TN tumors and ER-positive/PR-negative tumors than white men. Cancer 2013; 119: 1611-7. (C) 2013 American Cancer Society.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	An international comparison of male and female breast cancer incidence rates	Global international trends in female breast cancer incidence have been described previously but no comparable analysis of male breast cancer incidence rates has been conducted. We obtained male and female case and population data using Cancer Incidence in Five Continents (CI5). We calculated age-adjusted, sex-specific incidence rates and female-to-male incidence rate ratios (FMIRRs) and compared trends of such for the period 19882002. This analysis included 8,681 male breast cancer cases and 1.14 million female breast cancer cases. The highest male incidence rate was observed in Israel at 1.24 per 100,000 man-years, and the highest female incidence rate was observed in the United States at 90.7 per 100,000 woman-years. The lowest incidence rates for males (0.16) and females (18.0) were observed in Thailand. In general, male breast cancer incidence trends were variable; a minority of countries displayed evidence for an increase. In contrast, female incidence rates have been increasing in a majority of countries. The Pearson correlation coefficient (r) for male and female breast cancer incidence rates by country during 19882002 was 0.69. Male breast cancer rates were generally less than 1 per 100,000 man-years, in contrast to the much higher rates of female breast cancer, providing for an overall FMIRR of 122. The differences in both incidence rates and time trends between males and females may reflect sex differences in underlying risk factors, pathogenesis, and/or overdiagnosis. Conversely, the high correlation between male and female breast cancer incidences may indicate that both sexes share some common risk factors for breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Association of low-penetrance alleles with male breast cancer risk and clinicopathological characteristics: results from a multicenter study in Italy	It is well-known that male breast cancer (MBC) susceptibility is mainly due to high-penetrance BRCA1/2 mutations. Here, we investigated whether common low-penetrance breast cancer (BC) susceptibility alleles may influence MBC risk in Italian population and whether variant alleles may be associated with specific clinicopathological features of MBCs. In the frame of the Italian Multicenter Study on MBC, we genotyped 413 MBCs and 745 age-matched male controls at 9 SNPs annotating known BC susceptibility loci. By multivariate logistic regression models, we found a significant increased MBC risk for 3 SNPs, in particular, with codominant models, for rs2046210/ESR1 (OR = 1.71; 95 % CI: 1.43-2.05; p = 0.0001), rs3803662/TOX3 (OR = 1.59; 95 % CI: 1.32-1.92; p = 0.0001), and rs2981582/FGFR2 (OR = 1.26; 95 % CI: 1.05-1.50; p = 0.013). Furthermore, we showed that the prevalence of the risk genotypes of ESR1 tended to be higher in ER- tumors (p = 0.062). In a case-case multivariate analysis, a statistically significant association between ESR1 and ER- tumors was found (OR = 1.88; 95 % CI: 1.03-3.49; p = 0.039). Overall, our data, based on a large and well-characterized MBC series, support the hypothesis that common low-penetrance BC susceptibility alleles play a role in MBC susceptibility and, interestingly, indicate that ESR1 is associated with a distinct tumor subtype defined by ER-negative status.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Analysis of Copy Number Changes on Chromosome 16q in Male Breast Cancer by Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Value of Mitotic Index and Bcl2 Expression in Male Breast Cancer	The incidence of male breast cancer (MBC) is rising. Current treatment regimens for MBC are extrapolated from female breast cancer (FBC), based on the assumption that FBC prognostic features and therapeutic targets can be extrapolated to MBC. However, there is yet little evidence that prognostic features that have been developed and established in FBC are applicable to MBC as well. In a recent study on FBC, a combination of mitotic index and Bcl2 expression proved to be of strong prognostic value. Previous papers on Bcl2 expression in MBC were equivocal, and the prognostic value of Bcl2 combined with mitotic index has not been studied in MBC. The aim of the present study was therefore to investigate the prognostic value of Bcl2 in combination with mitotic index in MBC. Immunohistochemical staining for Bcl2 was performed on tissue microarrays of a total of 151 male breast cancer cases. Mitotic index was scored. The prognostic value of Bcl2 expression and Bcl2/mitotic index combinations was evaluated studying their correlations with clinicopathologic features and their prediction of survival. The vast majority of MBC (94%) showed Bcl2 expression, more frequently than previously described for FBC. Bcl2 expression had no significant associations with clinicopathologic features such as tumor size, mitotic count and grade. In univariate survival analysis, Bcl2 had no prognostic value, and showed no additional prognostic value to tumor size and histological grade in Cox regression. In addition, the Bcl2/mitotic index combination as opposed to FBC did not predict survival in MBC. In conclusion, Bcl2 expression is common in MBC, but is not associated with major clinicopathologic features and, in contrast to FBC, does not seem to have prognostic value, also when combined with mitotic index.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The epidemiology of cancer among police officers	Background This review summarizes peer-reviewed studies examining cancer risks among police officers. It provides an overview of existing research limitations and uncertainties and the plausible etiologic risk factors associated with cancer in this understudied occupation. Methods Previous cancer studies among police officers were obtained via a systematic review of the MEDLINE, CABDirect, and Web of Science bibliographic databases. Results Quality observational studies of cancer among police officers are sparse and subject to limitations in exposure assessment and other methods. Results from three studies suggested possible increased mortality risks for all cancers, and cancers of the colon, kidney, digestive system, esophagus, male breast, and testis, as well as Hodgkin's disease. Few incidence studies have been performed, and results have been mixed, although some associations with police work have been observed for thyroid, skin, and male breast cancer. Conclusions Police are exposed to a mix of known or suspected agents or activities that increase cancer risk. Epidemiologic evidence to date is sparse and inconsistent. There is a critical need for more research to understand the biological and social processes underlying exposures and the suggested disproportionate risks and to identify effective prevention strategies. Am. J. Ind. Med. 56:439453, 2013. (c) 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer, age and sex chromosome aneuploidy	Background: In cultured, dividing transformed T lymphocytes and in dividing bone marrow cells from normal men and those with a haematological malignancy, sex chromosome aneuploidy has been found to increase in prevalence and degree with age. This has rarely been investigated in non-dividing uncultured blood samples. The loss and gain of the X chromosome in dividing transformed lymphocytes in women with age is much more frequent than that of the Y chromosome in males. However, paradoxically X chromosome aneuploidy is rarely seen in the dividing cells of bone marrow of females.Methods: In blood samples from 565 men with breast cancer and 54 control men from the England and Wales general population, 80 cell nuclei per sample were scored for presence of X and Y chromosomes using fluorescent centromeric probes.Results: Sex chromosome aneuploidy, largely Y chromosome loss, was present in 63% of cases and 57% of controls, with the prevalence and degree of aneuploidy increasingly sharply and highly significantly with age. At ages 65-80 years, 71% of cases and 85% of controls showed aneuploidy and 15% and 25%, respectively, had >= 10% of cells aneuploid. Allowing for age, aneuploidy was less prevalent (P=0.03) in cases than controls.Conclusion: Sex chromosome aneuploidy in non-dividing nuclei of peripheral blood cells is frequent in adult men, the prevalence and degree increasing sharply with age. The possible relation of sex chromosome aneuploidy to breast cancer risk in men, and to cancer risk generally, needs further investigation, ideally in cohort studies.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	AN OVERVIEW OF OF MALE BREAST CANCER: 17 YEARS EXPERIENCE FROM A SINGLE CENTRE		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	MALE BREAST CANCER CHARACTERISTICS		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Association of-2549 Insertion/Deletion Polymorphism of Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor with Breast Cancer in North Indian Patients	Aims: The aim of the present study was to assess the role of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) -2549 insertion/deletion (I/D) polymorphism in susceptibility to sporadic breast cancer. Methods: DNA samples of 94 breast cancer patients and 94 unrelated healthy control individuals with matched age and gender from the same geographical region of Punjab, North West India were screened for the -2549 I/D polymorphism. Serum VEGF-C (sVEGF-C) levels of breast cancer patients and healthy controls were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Results: The frequency of the II, ID, and DD genotype was 23.40 versus 10.64%, 48.94 versus 52.13%, and 27.66 versus 37.23%, in patients and controls, respectively. A statistically significant difference was observed for genotype distribution among the patients and controls (chi(2) = 6.039, p = 0.049). There was a significant increase in the I allele frequency in the patients as compared with controls (47.86 versus 36.70%, p = 0.028). The sVEGF-C levels were also considerably higher in patients as compared to healthy controls (p < 0.01). Conclusions: The VEGF -2549 I/D polymorphism has a role in the susceptibility to breast cancer in the Amritsar region of Punjab, India.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Paraneoplastic Subacute Combined Degeneration of Spinal Cord: A Case Report in a Man with Breast Cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	WT1 Immunohistochemistry as a Novel Marker for Breast Myoepithelial Cells		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Differential Expression of Growth Factor Receptors and Membrane-Bound Tumor Markers for Imaging in Male and Female Breast Cancer	Introduction: Male breast cancer accounts for 0.5-1% of all breast cancers and is generally diagnosed at higher stage than female breast cancers and therefore might benefit from earlier detection and targeted therapy. Except for HER2 and EGFR, little is known about expression of growth factor receptors in male breast cancer. We therefore investigated expression profiles of growth factor receptors and membrane-bound tumor markers in male breast cancer and gynecomastia, in comparison with female breast cancer.Methods: Tissue microarrays containing 133 male breast cancer and 32 gynecomastia cases were stained by immunohistochemistry for a panel of membrane-bound targets and compared with data on 266 female breast cancers.Results: Growth factor receptors were variably expressed in 4.5% (MET) up to 38.5% (IGF1-R) of male breast cancers. Compared to female breast cancer, IGF1-R and carbonic anhydrase 12 (CAXII) were more frequently and CD44v6, MET and FGFR2 less frequently expressed in male breast cancer. Expression of EGFR, HER2, CAIX, and GLUT1 was not significantly different between male and female breast cancer. Further, 48.1% of male breast cancers expressed at least one and 18.0% expressed multiple growth factor receptors. Since individual membrane receptors are expressed in only half of male breast cancers, a panel of membrane markers will be required for molecular imaging strategies to reach sensitivity. A potential panel of markers for molecular imaging, consisting of EGFR, IGF1-R, FGFR2, CD44v6, CAXII, GLUT1, and CD44v6 was positive in 77% of male breast cancers, comparable to female breast cancers.Conclusions: Expression patterns of growth factor receptors and hypoxia membrane proteins in male breast cancer are different from female breast cancer. For molecular imaging strategies, a putative panel consisting of markers for EGFR, IGF1-R, FGFR2, GLUT1, CAXII, CD44v6 was positive in 77% of cases and might be considered for development of molecular tracers for male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Hormonal Receptor, Human Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor-2, and Ki67 Discordance between Primary Breast Cancer and Paired Metastases: Clinical Impact	Objective: As hormone receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER-2) expression in primary breast tumors frequently differs from that of paired metastases, we first evaluated the discordance rate (DR) of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR), HER-2, and K167 in breast cancer patients and then assessed the discordance effect on prognosis. Methods: Of 145 cases reviewed, 120 with samples available from both primary tumors and paired metastases were included in the study. For each receptor, the DR was calculated as the proportion of discordant cases with respect to the total number of patients. Results: A change in ER status was observed in 19 cases (DR 16.4%), while PgR status was modified in 48 cases (DR 41.7%). HER-2 was altered in 21 cases (DR 17.5%), and Ki67 in 33 patients (DR 38.8%). Patients with Ki67 <20% had a significantly higher postrecurrence survival (PRS) compared to patients with Ki67 >= 20% (p = 0.0006). Patients with ER-positive tumors showed a trend to-wards higher PRS (p = 0.064) compared to ER-negative patients. No differences in PRS were seen among patients with altered PgR or HER2 status. Conclusions: Changes in the cell biology of breast cancer metastasis would seem to occur and biopsy could potentially guide the choice of treatment and provide useful information on prognosis. Copyright (C) 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Adjuvant therapy with tamoxifen compared to aromatase inhibitors for 257 male breast cancer patients	To determine the impact of adjuvant treatment with tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors (AI) on the survival of men with breast cancer. We analyzed 257 male patients with hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer from numerous German population-based cancer registries treated with tamoxifen (N = 207) or aromatase inhibitors (N = 50). The median follow-up was 42.2 (range 2-115) months. Median age at diagnosis was 68 (range 36-91) years. Thirty-seven (17.9 %) patients treated with tamoxifen and 16 (32.0 %) patients treated with AI died (log rank p = 0.007). After the adjustment for the patient's age, tumor size, node status, and tumor grading, the AI treatment was linked to a 1.5-fold increase in risk of mortality compared to tamoxifen (HR 1.55; 95 % CI: 1.13-2.13; p = 0.007). The overall survival in male breast cancer was significantly better after adjuvant treatment with tamoxifen compared to an aromatase inhibitor. Tamoxifen should be considered as the treatment of choice for hormone-receptor-positive male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancers Behave Differently in Elderly Patients	The aim of this study was to evaluate tumor characteristics, management and survival in elderly male breast cancer patients in comparison with younger men.We reviewed medical records of 99 male breast cancer patients between 1972 and 2011. The median age of the patients was 64.5 years. Patient characteristics including clinicopathologic factors, treatment modalities, survival and prognostic factors were evaluated. Patients were subdivided into two groups according to their age (young, 65 years; old, epsilon 65 years) and compared based on these factors.Elderly male breast cancer patients had larger tumors in more advanced stages at the time of diagnosis compared with younger patients. In spite of the larger tumors at presentation, older patients had tumors with more favorable biological characteristics, such as higher ratio of estrogen and progesterone receptor expression. Ten-year cancer-specific survival for older patients was 49.2 compared with 55.8 in younger men (P 0.8). Prognostic factors influencing overall survival in univariate analysis were: the presence of metastatic axillary lymph nodes (P 0.0001), T stage (P 0.001) and age epsilon 65 years. Multivariate analysis indicated T stage (P 0.008) and N stage (P 0.038) as the significant negative prognostic factors for overall survival. Although surgery, radiotherapy and hormone therapy were equally utilized in old and young patients, old patients were less likely to receive adjuvant chemotherapy.Our study demonstrated the differences in the clinical and biological characteristics of male breast cancer according to the age of the patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	High proliferation is associated with inferior Outcome in male breast cancer patients	Assessment of proliferation is important in female breast cancer and individual treatment decisions are based upon its results, especially in the lumina! subgroups. Gene expression analyses fail to group male breast cancer into the intrinsic subgroups previously established in female breast cancer. Even though proliferation has been shown to divide male breast cancer into molecular subgroups with different prognoses, the clinical importance of proliferation markers has not yet been elucidated. Previous studies in male breast cancer have demonstrated contradictory results regarding the prognostic impact of histological grade and Ki-67, parameters strongly associated with proliferation. The aim of the present project was to study proliferation in male breast cancer by assessing other proliferation-related markers viz. cyclins A, B, D1 and mitotic count. A total of 197 male breast cancer cases with accessible paraffin-embedded material and outcome data were investigated. Immunohistochemical stainings were performed on tissue microarrays. Kaplan-Meier estimates and the Cox proportional regression models were used for survival analyses with breast cancer death as the event. The subset of patients with high expression of cyclin A (hazard ratio (HR) 3.7; P=0.001) and B (HR 2.7; P=0.02) demonstrated a poorer survival. Furthermore, high mitotic count was associated with an increased risk of breast cancer death (HR 2.5; P=0.01). In contrast, cyclin D1 overexpression was predictive of better breast cancer survival (HR 0.3; P=0.001). In conclusion, high levels of cyclin A and B expression and an elevated mitotic count result in a two to threefold higher risk for breast cancer death, whereas cyclin D1 overexpression halves the risk. The clinical utility of these proliferation markers needs further elucidation. Modern Pathology (2013) 26, 87-94; doi:10.1038/modpathol.2012.145; published online 24 August 2012	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Molecular subtyping of male breast cancer using alternative definitions and its prognostic impact	Background. Male breast cancer (MBC) is an uncommon disease and there is limited information on the prognostic impact of routinely used clinicopathological parameters. Material and methods. In a retrospective setting, we reviewed 197 MBC patients with accessible paraffin-embedded tumor tissue and clinicopathological data. Immunohistochemical (IHC) stainings were performed on tissue microarrays and histological grading on conventional slides. Cox proportional regression models were applied for uni- and multivariate analyses using breast cancer death as the event. Results. Estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor positivity were demonstrated in 93% and 77% of patients, respectively. Nottingham histologic grade (NHG) III was seen in 41% and HER2 positivity in 11%. Classification into molecular subtypes using IHC markers according to three alternative definitions revealed luminal A and luminal B in 81% vs. 11%; 48% vs. 44% and 41% vs. 42% of cases. Two cases of basal-like were identified, but no cases of HER2-like. Factors associated with an increased risk of breast cancer death were node positivity (HR 4.5; 95% CI 1.8-11.1), tumor size >20 mm (HR 3.3; 95% CI 1.4-7.9) and ER negativity (HR 10.9; 95% CI 3.2-37.9). No difference in breast cancer death between the luminal subgroups was demonstrated, regardless of definition. Conclusion. MBC tumors were more often of high grade, whereas HER2 overexpression was as frequent as in FBC. Lymph nodes, tumor size and ER status were independent predictors of breast cancer death. The prognostic impact of molecular subtyping in MBC seems to differ from that previously established in FBC.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Computed tomographic lymphography for sentinel lymph node biopsy in male breast cancer: report of two cases	Male breast cancer is rare, accounting for less than 1% of breast cancers. Because of its rarity evidence of the usefulness sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) for male breast cancer has not been established. Moreover, a navigation system which can easily determine the incision site of SLNB is needed because a second incision for SLNB is necessary in most cases. We report successful computed tomographic lymphography (CTLG)-guided SLNB in two male breast cancer cases: the first patient was a 79-year-old man and the second was a 64-year-old man. Both had presented with a lump behind the nipple. Clinical diagnoses were early breast carcinoma in both cases. The second patient took tamoxifen 20 mg daily as neoadjuvant endocrine therapy. SLNs were clearly visualized by CTLG, allowing mastectomies with SLNB to be performed. Both SLNB were negative, such that axillary lymph node dissection was not needed. Preoperative CTLG is useful for visualizing lymph flow and detecting SLN in male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Matched-pair analysis of patients with male and female breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Proportion of invasive micropapillary carcinoma lesion and primary breast cancer prognosis		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Immunophenotyping of male breast cancer	Kornegoor R, Verschuur-Maes A H J, Buerger H, Hogenes M C, de Bruin P C, Oudejans J J, Hinrichs B & van Diest P J ?(2012) Histopathology?Immunophenotyping of male breast cancer Aims: Male breast cancer is a rare disease, and knowledge of carcinogenesis is limited. Conflicting results, based on small series, have been reported for clinically relevant biomarkers. Methods and results: One hundred and thirty-four cases of male breast cancer were immunohistochemically stained on tissue microarrays for oestrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), androgen receptor, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2), BRST2, cyclin D1, bcl-2, p53, p16, p21, Ki67, cytokeratin (CK) 5/6, CK14, and epidermal growth factor receptor. Data were correlated with clinicopathological features and patient outcome. High mitotic count and high grade were correlated with high Ki67, HER2 amplification/overexpression, p53 accumulation, high p21 expression, low PR expression, and low bcl-2 expression. PR negativity (P = 0.009) and p53 accumulation (P = 0.042) were correlated with decreased 5-year survival and were independent markers for patient outcome in Cox regression. In unsupervised hierarchical clustering, four groups were identified that were correlated with distinctive clinicopathological features. The hormone negative/ER-positive/high-grade cluster was significantly associated with decreased survival (P = 0.011) and was an independent prognostic factor in Cox regression. Conclusions: Several tissue biomarkers are associated with an aggressive phenotype in male breast cancer. PR and p53 are the most promising individual prognostic markers. On the basis of immunophenotype, four distinctive and prognostically relevant male breast cancer groups were identified, indicating that protein expression profiling may be clinically useful in male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic value of automatically extracted nuclear morphometric features in whole slide images of male breast cancer	Numerous studies have shown the prognostic significance of nuclear morphometry in breast cancer patients. Wide acceptance of morphometric methods has, however, been hampered by the tedious and time consuming nature of the manual segmentation of nuclei and the lack of equipment for high throughput digitization of slides. Recently, whole slide imaging became more affordable and widely available, making fully digital pathology archives feasible. In this study, we employ an automatic nuclei segmentation algorithm to extract nuclear morphometry features related to size and we analyze their prognostic value in male breast cancer. The study population comprised 101 male breast cancer patients for whom survival data was available (median follow-up of 5.7 years). Automatic segmentation was performed on digitized tissue microarray slides, and for each patient, the mean nuclear area and the standard deviation of the nuclear area were calculated. In univariate survival analysis, a significant difference was found between patients with low and high mean nuclear area (P=0.022), while nuclear atypia score did not provide prognostic value. In Cox regression, mean nuclear area had independent additional prognostic value (P=0.032) to tumor size and tubule formation. In conclusion, we present an automatic method for nuclear morphometry and its application in male breast cancer prognosis. The automatically extracted mean nuclear area proved to be a significant prognostic indicator. With the increasing availability of slide scanning equipment in pathology labs, these kinds of quantitative approaches can be easily integrated in the workflow of routine pathology practice. Modern Pathology (2012) 25, 1559-1565; doi:10.1038/modpathol.2012.126; published online 17 August 2012	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer in the United States: A Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Analysis		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Radiation Therapy and Male Breast Cancer: A Population-based Registry Analysis		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Genome-wide association study identifies a common variant in RAD51B associated with male breast cancer risk	We conducted a genome-wide association study of male breast cancer comprising 823 cases and 2,795 controls of European ancestry, with validation in independent sample sets totaling 438 cases and 474 controls. A SNP in RAD51B at 14q24.1 was significantly associated with male breast cancer risk (P = 3.02 x 10(-13); odds ratio (OR) = 1.57). We also refine association at 16q12.1 to a SNP within TOX3 (P = 3.87 x 10(-15); OR = 1.50).	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Fibrotic focus and hypoxia in male breast cancer	Fibrotic focus is a scar-like lesion near the center of a carcinoma and has been associated with high-grade, lymph node metastases and poor survival in female breast cancers. Hypoxia is suggested to be the crucial link between fibrotic focus and aggressive tumor phenotype and is also itself a poor prognostic marker. We here set out to study fibrotic focus and hypoxia in male breast cancer for the first time. In a group of 134 male breast cancer patients, the presence and size of a fibrotic focus and the expression of three hypoxia-related immunohistochemical stainings, hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha, carbonic anhydrase IX and Glut-1 were studied in correlation with clinicopathological features and prognosis. Fibrotic focus was seen in 25% of the male breast cancer cases and was correlated with hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha overexpression (P = 0.023), high grade (P = 0.005), high mitotic activity (P = 0.005) and lymph node metastases (P = 0.037). Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha-positive tumors were more often high grade (P = 0.003) and HER2 amplified (P = 0.005). Glut-1 expression was also more common in grade 3 tumors (P = 0.038), but no association between carbonic anhydrase IX and any clinicopathological feature was found. Fibrotic focus >8mm and hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha overexpression were correlated with decreased patients' outcome (P = 0.035 and 0.008, respectively). Hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha overexpression was an independent and the most powerful predictor of survival in multivariate analysis (P = 0.029; hazard ratio 2.5). In conclusion, the presence of a fibrotic focus is associated with hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha overexpression, and both are associated with aggressive tumor phenotype and poor survival in male breast cancer. These markers seem to have similar clinical importance as previously reported in female breast cancer. Modern Pathology (2012) 25, 1397-1404; doi: 10.1038/modpathol.2012.101; published online 8 June 2012	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: A retrospective study comparing survival with female breast cancer	Male breast cancer is a rare disease. The aim of this study was to compare overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival (DFS) in a group of matched males and females with breast cancer. The clinical data and survival status of 42 operable male breast cancer (MBC) cases treated at the Central Hospital of Tai'an from 1982 to 2006 were collected. Each MBC patient recorded in the database was matched with two female breast cancer (FBC) patients. Matching was conducted based on age, year of diagnosis, stage and pathology. SPSS 16.0 software was used for statistical analysis. The Chi-square test was used for the categorical data, the Kaplan-Meier method was applied to analyze survival and the log-rank test was used to compare curves between the groups. P<0.05 was considered to indicate a statistically significant difference. The 42 MBC patients were matched with 84 FBC patients. The mean age at diagnosis was 58.0 +/- 11.3 years for males and 57.1 +/- 10.6 years for females, and the median follow-up time was 64 months (range, 5-262 months) for males and 71 months (range, 29-283 months) for females. Significant differences were identified for tumor location, hormone receptor status, adjuvant chemotherapy and hormone therapy between the two groups. Monofactorial analysis demonstrated that tumor size, lymph node status and AJCC stage were prognostic factors in MBC patients. The 5- and 10-year DFS rates were 61.2 and 40.7% for males, and 68.7 and 43.0% for females, respectively. The Sand 10-year OS rates were 75.3 and 52.3% for males, and 82.9 and 63.2% for females, respectively. In our study, male breast carcinoma patients had a worse prognosis compared to female breast carcinoma patients which may be due to the deficiency of adjuvant chemotherapy and endocrine therapy.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Zaria, Nigeria: a 12 year histopathological review		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Are there biologic differences between male and female breast cancer explaining inferior outcome of men despite equal stage and treatment?!	Reasons for inferior outcome of male compared to female breast cancer are still under debate. Therefore, we retrospectively analyzed male breast cancer cases to figure out possible treatment- and gender-related differences.A total of 40 men (median age 62 years) were curatively treated with mastectomy and postoperative radiotherapy from 1982-2007. They presented predominantly in stages II and IIIb. Postoperative radiotherapy was applied with doses of 1.8-2.5 Gy to a median of 50 Gy including regional lymphatics in 22 patients. Adjuvant systemic treatment consisted of chemotherapy (22.5%) and antihormonal treatment (55%). For reasons of comparison, we estimated outcome of a virtual female matched cohort for no/equal to men/optimal adjuvant treatment with the Adjuvant!OnlineA (R) 8.0 algorithm.After a median follow-up of 47 months, the estimated 5-year local control rate was 97%, disease-free and distant metastasis-free survival rates reached 79% and 82%, respectively. With update of survival data by tumor registry, mean overall survival reached 120 months with 5- and 10-year overall survival rates of 66% and 43%, respectively. Predominant prognostic factor was T-stage for overall survival (T1/2 vs. T4: > 80% vs. 30%). The generated virtual matched cohorts of women with equal characteristics reached superior 10-year-overall survival for no/equal to men/optimal adjuvant treatment with 55/59/68%.Compared to historical and virtual matched cohorts of women, male breast cancer patients had inferior outcome despite of equal stage and treatment which indicates that biological differences (of tumor or population) may contribute to worse prognosis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Oncogene amplification in male breast cancer: analysis by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification	Gene amplification is an important mechanism for oncogene activation, a crucial step in carcinogenesis. Compared to female breast cancer, little is known on the genetic makeup of male breast cancer, because large series are lacking. Copy number changes of 21 breast cancer related genes were studied in 110 male breast cancers using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. A ratio of > 1.3 was regarded indicative for gene copy number gain and a ratio > 2.0 for gene amplification. Data were correlated with clinicopathological features, prognosis and 17 genes were compared with a group of female breast cancers. Gene copy number gain of CCND1, TRAF4, CDC6 and MTDH was seen in > 40 % of the male breast cancer cases, with also frequent amplification. The number of genes with copy number gain and several single genes were associated with high grade, but only CCND1 amplification was an independent predictor of adverse survival in Cox regression (p = 0.015; hazard ratio 3.0). In unsupervised hierarchical clustering a distinctive group of male breast cancer with poor prognosis (p = 0.009; hazard ratio 3.4) was identified, characterized by frequent CCND1, MTDH, CDC6, ADAM9, TRAF4 and MYC copy number gain. Compared to female breast cancers, EGFR (p = 0.005) and CCND1 (p = 0.041) copy number gain was more often seen in male breast cancer, while copy number gain of EMSY (p = 0.004) and CPD (p = 0.001) and amplification in general was less frequent. In conclusion, several female breast cancer genes also seem to be important in male breast carcinogenesis. However, there are also clear differences in copy number changes between male and female breast cancers, pointing toward differences in carcinogenesis between male and female breast cancer and emphasizing the importance of identifying biomarkers and therapeutic agents based on research in male breast cancer. In addition CCND1 amplification seems to be an independent prognosticator in male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Analysis of EMSY in Italian Male Breast Cancer Patients		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Common Breast Cancer Susceptibility Alleles in BRCA-positive and BRCA-negative Male Breast Cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Assessing HER2 amplification in breast cancer: findings from the Australian In Situ Hybridization Program	In August 2006, the Australian government approved subsidized trastuzumab therapy for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-positive early breast cancer, and it was mandated that HER2 testing should be performed using in situ hybridization (ISH) rather than immunohistochemistry (IHC). Here we review results of the first regulated, nationwide program to provide HER2 ISH testing for all newly diagnosed breast cancer patients, with a particular emphasis on cases where IHC and ISH results were discordant. Data from all laboratories participating in the program were collated. Cases with an equivocal ISH test result [by chromogenic ISH (CISH) or silver ISH (SISH)] were tested centrally by fluorescence ISH. Most laboratories also performed HER2 IHC, and 200 cases with discordant IHC and ISH results were selected for further analysis in a central laboratory. A total of 26 laboratories were involved and 53,402 tests were reported. Over a 4-year period the HER2 positivity rate decreased for primary cancers from 23.8 to 14.6 %, but remained relatively constant for samples from metastases. Average ISH reporting times were < 5 days for all yearly reporting periods. Test-repeat rates decreased for CISH (8.9-3.6 %) and SISH (13.7-8.4 %). Only 12 of 196 cases remained discordant after retesting in a central laboratory. These findings demonstrate the successful implementation of a regulated, national program that continues to collect data on HER2 status. The results also highlight the differences in IHC interpretation between local laboratories and a central, more experienced, laboratory. This model could be used to establish future biomarker-testing programs in other countries.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Clinical and pathologic characteristics of BRCA-positive and BRCA-negative male breast cancer patients: results from a collaborative multicenter study in Italy	Recently, the number of studies on male breast cancer (MBC) has been increasing. However, as MBC is a rare disease there are difficulties to undertake studies to identify specific MBC subgroups. At present, it is still largely unknown whether BRCA-related breast cancer (BC) in men may display specific characteristics as it is for BRCA-related BC in women. To investigate the clinical-pathologic features of MBC in association with BRCA mutations we established a collaborative Italian Multicenter Study on MBC with the aim to recruit a large series of MBCs. A total of 382 MBCs, including 50 BRCA carriers, were collected from ten Italian Investigation Centres covering the whole country. In MBC patients, BRCA2 mutations were associated with family history of breast/ovarian cancer (p < 0.0001), personal history of other cancers (p = 0.044) and contralateral BC (p = 0.001). BRCA2-associated MBCs presented with high tumor grade (p = 0.001), PR- (p = 0.026) and HER2+ (p = 0.001) status. In a multivariate logistic model BRCA2 mutations showed positive association with personal history of other cancers (OR 11.42, 95 % CI 1.79-73.08) and high tumor grade (OR 4.93, 95 % CI 1.02-23.88) and inverse association with PR+ status (OR 0.19, 95 % CI 0.04-0.92). Based on immunohistochemical (IHC) profile, four molecular subtypes of MBC were identified. Luminal A was the most common subtype (67.7 %), luminal B was observed in 26.5 % of the cases and HER2 positive and triple negative were represented by 2.1 % and 3.7 % of tumors, respectively. Intriguingly, we found that both luminal B and HER2 positive subtypes were associated with high tumor grade (p = 0.003 and 0.006, respectively) and with BRCA2 mutations (p = 0.016 and 0.001, respectively). In conclusion, our findings indicate that BRCA2-related MBCs represent a subgroup of tumors with a peculiar phenotype characterized by aggressive behavior. The identification of a BRCA2-associated phenotype might define a subset of MBC patients eligible for personalized clinical management.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Indian patients: Is it the same	Background: Cancer of the male breast accounts for about 1% of all malignancies in men and 1% of all breast cancers. Poor level of awareness often results in late presentation and delayed diagnosis in our environment. This study was done to analyse the demographic data, management and survival of male breast cancers in Indian subset of patients and compare it with that of western literature. Materials and Methods: A 10 year (2001-2010) retrospective study of all male breast cancers was done. Data regarding the incidence, presentation, histopathology, stage and grade of tumor, management and outcome of patients were analysed. Results: 26 cases of male breast cancer were encountered. This comprised 0.4% of all breast cancers seen in our department during the 10 year period. The ages of patients ranged from 45-75 years with a mean age of 57 years. Family history was present in 4 patients. Clinically, symptoms included self-detected lump in 23 (88.5%) patients, nipple retraction in 12 (46.1%) and pain in 12 (46.1%). All cases were unilateral (16 on right, 10 on left). Disease most commonly involved central quadrant (9 patients). Grade 3 disease was found in 13 patients and Stage 3 disease was most commonly encountered (13 patients). None of our patients received neo adjuvant chemotherapy. 20 (76.9%) patients had modified radical mastectomy and 6 (23.1%) had radical mastectomy. Most of our patients were hormone receptor positive (21 patients). Bilateral orchidectomy, Adjuvant chemotherapy, Adjuvant radiotherapy and Tamoxifen were offered in 3 (11.5%), 16 (61.5%), 17 (65.4%) and 15 (57.7%) patients respectively. Follow up ranged from 1-59 months. Conclusion: Male breast cancer is rare in our centre. Late presentation with advanced disease is a common feature in our environment. Further multiinstitutional, prospective studies are needed for better understanding of management of male breast cancers in Indian subset of patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer in Singapore: 15 Years of Experience at a Single Tertiary Institution	Introduction: Male breast cancer is a rare disease entity, with little data from the Southeast Asian perspective. Hence, this study aims to review the data from our local experience in order to better delineate the disease characteristics in our population. Materials and Methods: Male patients with histologically proven breast cancer were identified from a prospectively collected database. The clinical, histopathological and survival data were reviewed retrospectively and analysed. Results: Twenty-one patients were identified. The median age at diagnosis was 68 years. Eighteen patients underwent simple mastectomy with curative intent, with the remainding patients having metastatic disease at presentation. Almost half of the patients presented with stage III or IV disease. At the time of analysis, median overall survival was 50 months and median disease-free survival was 47.5 months. None of the patients had any documented family history or risk factors for male breast cancer. Conclusion: The disease appears to be a sporadic and rare occurrence in the local male population. A high index of suspicion should be maintained in males presented with a unilateral breast lump so that appropriate treatment can be instituted.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A comparative biomarker study of 514 matched cases of male and female breast cancer reveals gender-specific biological differences	Male breast cancer remains understudied despite evidence of rising incidence. Using a co-ordinated multi-centre approach, we present the first large scale biomarker study to define and compare hormone receptor profiles and survival between male and female invasive breast cancer. We defined and compared hormone receptor profiles and survival between 251 male and 263 female breast cancers matched for grade, age, and lymph node status. Tissue microarrays were immunostained for ER alpha, ER beta 1, -2, -5, PR, PRA, PRB and AR, augmented by HER2, CK5/6, 14, 18 and 19 to assist typing. Hierarchical clustering determined differential nature of influences between genders. Luminal A was the most common phenotype in both sexes. Luminal B and HER2 were not seen in males. Basal phenotype was infrequent in both. No differences in overall survival at 5 or 10 years were observed between genders. Notably, AR-positive luminal A male breast cancer had improved overall survival over female breast cancer at 5 (P = 0.01, HR = 0.39, 95% CI = 0.26-0.87) but not 10 years (P = 0.29, HR = 0.75, 95% CI = 0.46-1.26) and both 5 (P = 0.04, HR = 0.37, 95% CI = 0.07-0.97) and 10 years (P = 0.04, HR = 0.43, 95% CI = 0.12-0.97) in the unselected group. Hierarchical clustering revealed common clusters between genders including total PR-PRA-PRB and ER beta 1/2 clusters. A striking feature was the occurrence of ER alpha on distinct clusters between genders. In female breast cancer, ER alpha clustered with PR and its isoforms; in male breast cancer, ER alpha clustered with ER beta isoforms and AR. Our data supports the hypothesis that breast cancer is biologically different in males and females suggesting implications for clinical management. With the incidence of male breast cancer increasing this provides impetus for further study.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A meta-analysis of male breast cancer in Africa	To characterize male breast cancer in Africa in recent decades, we systematically reviewed literature and conducted a meta-analysis of available data on male breast cancer in Africa. A paper was included if both male and female breast cancer were available. If two publications covered the same geographic area, only the publication with a longer study period was included. Random effects models and mixed effect meta-regressions were used to analyze data of 1201 male and 36,172 female breast cancer patients from 27 African countries. We showed that the male-to-female breast cancer ratio was 0.042 overall and it has decreased in recent years. Additionally, male breast cancer patients in Africa had the disease at age 54.6 on average, 7 years older than female patients. In conclusion, male breast cancers in Africa are characterized as late onset and male-to-female breast cancer ratio in Africa is higher than populations in developed countries. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Evolving trends in the initial locoregional management of male breast cancer	The locoregional management of breast cancer in men has evolved over time. Multimodality treatment regimens currently in use are based primarily on large randomized trials that exclusively enrolled women with breast cancer. We retrospectively reviewed cases of male breast cancer treated with radiotherapy at Stanford University Medical Center with an emphasis on 22 patients treated with surgery and locoregional radiotherapy. We report trends in the surgical techniques as well as in the use of adjuvant radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and hormonal therapy. There were no isolated locoregional failures in this cohort, and 5-year disease-free survival was 65%. The use of contemporary surgical and radiotherapeutic techniques in men is discussed. We conclude that treatment guidelines designed for women should be applied to the locoregional management of breast cancer in men. However, large international prospective registries and inclusion of men in cooperative group randomized trials will be important to confirm the safety and efficacy of modern treatment modalities for male breast cancer. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Increasing prevalence of breast cancer among Saudi patients attending a tertiary referral hospital: a retrospective epidemiologic study	Aim To determine the pattern of breast diseases among Saudi patients who underwent breast biopsy, with special emphasis on breast carcinoma.Methods A retrospective review was made of all breast biopsy reports of a mass or lump from male and female patients seen between January 2001 and December 2010 at the King Khalid University Hospital, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.Results Of 1035 breast tissues reviewed, 939 specimens (90.7%) were from female patients. There were 690 benign (65.8%) and 345 (34.2%) malignant cases. In women, 603 (64.2%) specimens were benign and 336 (35.8%) were malignant. In men, 87 specimens (90.6%) were benign and 9 (9.4%) were malignant. All malignant cases from male patients belonged to invasive ductal carcinoma and the majority of malignant cases from female patients belonged to invasive/infiltrating ductal carcinoma. The proportion of malignancy was 18% in patients younger than 40 years and 63.2% in patients older than 60 years. The mean age of onset for malignancy was 48.6 years. The annual percentage incidence of malignant breast cancer steadily increased by 4.8%, from an annual rate of 23.5% in 2000 to 47.2% in 2007.Conclusion Among Saudi patients, there is a significant increase in the incidence of breast cancer, which occurs at an earlier age than in western countries. Continued vigilance, mammographic screening, and patient education are needed to establish early diagnosis and perform optimal treatment.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Health-related quality of life in male breast cancer patients	The objective of this study is to investigate health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in male breast cancer patients. Data of 20,673 patients diagnosed with primary breast cancer (male: n = 84) who completed a questionnaire after discharge from hospital were analysed. HRQoL (SF-36), age, sex, education, native language, insurance status, and partnership status were measured. Cancer staging, treatment (partial mastectomy vs. radical mastectomy), and cancer site were indicated by the clinicians. The HRQoL scores of male breast cancer patients were compared with reference populations. Differences in HRQoL scores between men and women were compared using t tests and regression analysis. Compared to female breast cancer patients, male patients scored significantly higher on seven of eight subscales (physical functioning, role functioning-physical and emotional, bodily pain, vitality, social functioning, and mental health) in the regression analysis. Compared to the reference populations (general male population, men aged 61-70, and the cancer-affected population), male breast cancer patients scored lower on SF-36 subscales on average, with major differences in emotional and physical role functioning. The results suggest that male breast cancer patients may need early interventions that specifically target role functioning, which is severely impaired compared to the male reference population. Future research needs to assess HRQoL with cancer-specific questionnaires and longitudinal designs also focussing on male patients in breast centres.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The 3-layered Ductal Epithelium in Gynecomastia	Gynecomastia is the most common abnormality in the male breast and has been associated with male breast cancer, but whether there is an etiological role remains unknown. In the present study we conducted an immunohistochemical investigation to further characterize gynecomastia. A total of 46 cases of gynecomastia were immunohistochemically stained on tissue microarrays for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor, HER2, androgen receptor, cytokeratins (CK5, CK14, CK7, and CK8/18), p63, E-cadherin, BRST2, cyclin D1, Bcl-2, p53, p16, p21, and Ki67. In addition, 8 cases of male ductal carcinoma in situ and normal breast tissue obtained from autopsies (n = 10) and adjacent to male breast cancer (n = 5) were studied. Normal ductal male breast epithelial cells were very often ER and Bcl-2 positive (> 69%), and progesterone receptor and androgen receptor expression was also common (> 39%). Gynecomastia showed a consistent 3-layered pattern: 1 myoepithelial and 2 epithelial cell layers with a distinctive immunohistochemical staining pattern. The intermediate luminal layer, consisting of vertically oriented cuboidal-to-columnar cells, is hormone receptor positive and expresses Bcl-2 and cyclin D1. The inner luminal layer is composed of smaller cells expressing CK5 and often CK14 but is usually negative for hormone receptors and Bcl-2. Male ductal carcinoma in situ was consistently ER positive and CK5/CK14 negative. In conclusion, for the first time we describe the 3-layered ductal epithelium in gynecomastia, which has a distinctive immunohistochemical profile. These results indicate that different cellular compartments exist in gynecomastia, and therefore gynecomastia does not seem to be an obligate precursor lesion of male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A robust transgenic mouse model to study male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gene expression profiling of male breast cancer reveals two subgroups distinct from the intrinsic subtypes of female breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Risk of breast cancer in families of multiple affected women and men	Family history of first and second-degree relatives is known to increase the risk for breast cancer. Less data are available on the risks between defined multiple affected close and distant relatives for which the reliability of data may be an issue. Data on affected males are sparse. These questions and the probable genetic models were addressed in this study by means of a nationwide Swedish Family-Cancer Database. We estimated the effect of family history of breast cancer by Poisson regression for women of at least 30 years of age after adjusting for age, period, region, socioeconomic status, number of children, and age at first birth. The results of the study showed that relative risk (RR) for breast cancer was associated with a first degree as well as second-degree family history. Having at least two female affected first-degree relatives increased the RR at least to 2.8, favoring an additive interaction. The risk was increased around ten times in women with both parents affected. When either a father or a mother was affected, the RRs were nearly identical (RR = 1.73 and 1.74, respectively). The RR for a woman increased more when a brother was affected (RR = 2.48) compared to when a sister was affected (RR = 1.87). Having an affected grandmother showed lower familial excess risks than having an affected half sister (RR = 1.27, and 1.26; and RR = 1.39, and 1.50; respectively, for maternal and paternal relatives). We concluded that when both parents were diagnosed with breast cancer, the risk for the daughter was increased tenfold. Having an affected brother showed a somewhat higher risk than having an affected sister. The data suggest that male breast cancer has a higher genetic basis than female breast cancer, which invites further search of the underlying mechanisms.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Defective homologous recombination in human cancers	Homologous recombination (HR) is a process by which DNA double strand breaks are repaired through the alignment of homologous sequences of DNA. Interest continues to increase in HR pathway function due to the development of new therapeutic agents which selectively exploit DNA damage repair pathways. Currently the most promising of these new agents are inhibitors of poly(ADP ribose) polymerase (PARP). The response of cancers known to be deficient in HR, due to BRCA1 or 2 mutations has been demonstrated, and a wider use of PARP inhibitors in cancers with mutations of other HR pathway genes has been suggested. With ongoing clinical studies into the use of PARP inhibitors, further understanding of the HR pathway, to allow patient selection by cancer biology, is now essential. Numerous studies have investigated individual aberrations of genes involved in the HR pathway. Here we collate this evidence to give an overview of the role of the HR pathway in human cancer. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	HER2-Positive Male Breast Cancer with Thyroid Cancer: an Institutional Report and Review of Literature	We report a rare finding of two male breast cancer patients with HER2-positive breast cancer who also developed thyroid cancer. We reviewed 45 male breast cancer patients treated in our institution from 2003 to 2008. Only five male breast cancer patients were HER2-positive. In reviewing the published data, we found no cases of thyroid cancer and concurrent breast cancer in men. However, breast cancer and thyroid cancer have shown close association in women. This finding therefore provokes speculation as to whether we should investigate whether women with HER2-positive breast cancer are at a higher risk for thyroid cancer. Although this observation seems to be clinically prevalent, publications are sparse in clinical research areas linking thyroid cancer to breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer - University Hospitals of Leicester Experience		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Efficacy of Aromatase Inhibitors in Male Breast Cancer (n)over-tilde a Single Centre Experience		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Molecular subtyping of male breast cancer by immunohistochemistry	Molecular subtyping of breast cancer by gene expression has proven its significance in females. Immunohistochemical surrogates have been used for this classification, because gene expression profiling is not yet routinely feasible. Male breast cancer is rare and large series are lacking. In this study, we used immunohistochemistry for molecular subtyping of male breast cancer. A total of 134 cases of male breast cancer were immunohistochemically stained on tissue microarrays for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), HER2 and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), as well as for CK5/6, CK14, and Ki67. HER2 was also assessed by chromogen in situ hybridization. Cases were classified as luminal A (ER+ and/or PR+, and HER2- and Ki67 low), luminal B (ER+ and/or PR+, and HER2+ or Ki67 high), HER2 driven (ER+, PR+, HER2+), basal-like (ER-, PR-, HER2-, CK5/6+ and/or CK14+ and/or EGFR+), or unclassifiable triple-negative ( negative for all six markers). Luminal type A was by far the most encountered type of male breast cancers, representing 75% of the cases. Luminal type B was seen in 21% and the remaining 4% of cases were classified as basal-like (n=4) and unclassifiable triple-negative (n=1). No HER2 driven cases were identified. Patients with basal-like cancer were significantly younger (P=0.034). Luminal B type cancers showed significantly higher histological grade (P<0.001), mitotic index (P<0.001), and PR negativity (P=0.005) compared with luminal type A cancers. In conclusion, most male breast cancers are luminal A and luminal B types, whereas basal-like, unclassifiable triple-negative, and HER2 driven male breast cancers are rare. Luminal type B seem to represent a subtype with an aggressive phenotype. This distribution of molecular subtypes in male breast cancer is clearly different compared with female breast cancers, pointing to possible important differences in carcinogenesis. Modern Pathology (2012) 25, 398-404; doi:10.1038/modpathol.2011.174; published online 4 November 2011	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer: 10-Year Experience at Mansoura University Hospital in Egypt	Objective Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease representing less than 1% of all malignancies. The objective of the study is to report clinicopathological characteristics, treatment patterns, and outcomes of MBC in Mansoura University Hospital, Egypt.Methods This retrospective study focused on male breast cancer patients during 10 years (2000-2009). The studied variables were data regarding general characteristics of patients, treatment modalities and survival.Results The series included 37 patients (0.8% of all breast cancer). The median age was 57.7 years (range: 26-86 years). The main clinical complaint was a mass beneath the areola in 94.5% of the cases. Most patients had a locally advanced disease. 94.5% of tumors were invasive duct carcinomas. The treatment was essentially surgery in 91.8%, followed by adjuvant radiotherapy (in 89.2%), hormonal therapy (in 56.7%) and chemotherapy (in 91.8%). Follow-up period ranged from 6-115 months. Local recurrence occurred in 4 cases and metastasis in 11 cases. The 2-year and 5-year overall survival (OS) rates were 81.6% and 60.5%, respectively. The 2-year and 5-year disease-free survival (DFS) rates were 68.4%, and 52.6%, respectively. OS was not significantly affected by any of the studied parameters. Factors influencing DFS were: T stage (P=0.05), positive lymph nodes (P=0.043), metastasis (P=0.004), and chemotherapy (P=0.046).Conclusions MBC is a rare disease and often diagnosed at a locally advanced stage. The management of male and female breast carcinoma is identical. Future research for better understanding of this disease is needed to improve the management and prognosis of male breast cancer patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prevalence of BRCA1/2 mutations in sporadic breast/ovarian cancer patients and identification of a novel de novo BRCA1 mutation in a patient diagnosed with late onset breast and ovarian cancer: implications for genetic testing	In order to adequately evaluate the clinical relevance of genetic testing in sporadic breast and ovarian cancer patients, we offered comprehensive BRCA1/2 mutation analysis in patients without a family history for the disease. We evaluated the complete coding and splice site regions of BRCA1/2 in 193 sporadic patients. In addition, a de novo mutation was further investigated with ultra deep sequencing and microsatellite marker analysis. In 17 patients (8.8%), a deleterious germline BRCA1/2 mutation was identified. The highest mutation detection ratio (3/7 = 42.9%) was obtained in sporadic patients diagnosed with breast and ovarian cancer after the age of 40. In 21 bilateral breast cancer patients, two mutations were identified (9.5%). Furthermore, 140 sporadic patients with unilateral breast cancer were investigated. Mutations were only identified in patients diagnosed with breast cancer before the age of 40 (12/128 = 9.4% vs. 0/12 with Dx > 40). No mutations were detected in 17 sporadic male breast cancer and 6 ovarian cancer patients. BRCA1 c.3494_3495delTT was identified in a patient diagnosed with breast and ovarian cancer at the age of 52 and 53, respectively, and was proven to have occurred de novo at the paternal allele. Our study shows that the mutation detection probability in specific patient subsets can be significant, therefore mutation analysis should be considered in sporadic patients. As a consequence, a family history for the disease and an early age of onset should not be used as the only criteria for mutation analysis of BRCA1/2. The relatively high mutation detection ratio suggests that the prevalence of BRCA1/2 may be underestimated, especially in sporadic patients who developed breast and ovarian cancer. In addition, although rare, the possibility of a de novo occurrence in a sporadic patient should be considered.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Detection of a large rearrangement in PALB2 in Spanish breast cancer families with male breast cancer	It has been demonstrated that monoallelic PALB2 (Partner and Localizer of BRCA2) gene mutations predispose to familial breast cancer. Some of the families reported with germline PALB2 mutations presented male breast cancer as a characteristic clinical feature. Therefore, we wanted to investigate the contribution of germline PALB2 mutations in a set of 131 Spanish BRCA1/BRCA2-negative breast/ovarian cancer families with at least one male breast cancer case. The analysis included direct sequencing of all coding exons and intron/exon boundaries as well as a Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification-based analysis of genomic rearrangements. For the first time we have identified a genomic rearrangement of PALB2 gene involving a large deletion from exon 7 to 11 in a breast cancer family. We have also identified several PALB2 variants, but no other obvious deleterious PALB2 mutation has been found. Thus, our study does not support an enrichment of PALB2 germline mutations in the subset of breast cancer families with male breast cancer cases. The identification of intronic and exonic variants indicates the necessity of assessing the implications of variants that do not lead to PALB2 truncation in the pathoghenicity of the PALB2 gene.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	GATA-3 Expression in Male and Female Breast Cancers: Comparison of Clinicopathologic Parameters and Outcome		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Adenoid Cystic Carcinoma of the Breast - A Morphologic Study of 41 Cases		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Cytomorphology of male breast lesions: Diagnostic pitfalls and clinical implications	Because lesions of the male breast have been exceeded in number by those of the female breast, marginal attention was given to these lesions in the past. Fortunately, this has changed over the years leading to an increased awareness about male breast cancer. Although male breast cancer constitutes only about 1% of all diagnosed breast cancer cases, an increased mortality is seen in this patient population. This is probably caused by late diagnosis as a consequence of low level of concern about breast cancer among male patients.However, the vast majority of lesions of the male breast are benign, gynecomastia being the number one cause of unilateral or bilateral breast mass. Since it is important to avoid unnecessary surgical treatment without missing malignancy, accurate diagnostic tools are necessary in order to triage these patients. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy has demonstrated excellent accuracy in the diagnosis and management of breast lesions in female patients. In addition, several authors have proven the value of this technique in the evaluation of lesions of the male breast. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy permits accurate diagnosis in many lesions arising in the male breast. It also allows gathering cytological material that can be used for ancillary studies which enhances the diagnostic value of this technique. Diagn. Cytopathol. 2012; 40: 179-184. (C) 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	THE IMPACT OF POST-MASTECTOMY RADIATION THERAPY ON MALE BREAST CANCER PATIENTS-A CASE SERIES	Objective: To assess the impact of radiation management on male breast cancer (MBC) at London Regional Cancer Program (LRCP).Methods and Materials: Men with a diagnosis of breast cancer referred to LRCP were reviewed. The seventh American Joint Committee on Cancer staging system was used. Patients treated with and without postmastectomy radiation therapy (PMRT) were analyzed. Disease-free survival (DFS) was defined as time duration from diagnosis to first recurrence. Overall survival (OS) was defined as time duration from pathologic diagnosis to death or last follow-up with any death defined as an event. Survival estimates were obtained using Kaplan-Meier methodology.Results: From January 1977 to December 2006, 81 men had invasive ductal carcinoma. The median age was 65 (range, 35-87 years). There were 15 Stage I, 40 Stage II, 20 Stage III, and 6 Stage IV patients. Median follow-up time was 46 months (range, 1-225 months). Of the 75 patients treated with curative intent, 29 did not receive PMRT and 46 completed PMRT. Patients who received PMRT demonstrated no benefit in overall survival (p = 0.872) but significantly better local recurrence free survival (p < 0.001) compared with those who did not receive RT. There was trend toward improving locoregional recurrence with PMRT in patients with high-risk features (node-positive, advanced stage, and <= 2 mm or unknown surgical margin). The median, 5-year, and 10-year disease-free survival and overall survival for the 75 patients were 77.7 months, 66.3%, 32.7%, and 91.2 months, 73.9%, and 36.6%, respectively.Conclusion: The experience at LRCP suggests that high-risk MBC patients should consider PMRT to improve their chance of local recurrence-free survival. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer: Immunohistochemical Subtypes and Clinical Outcome Characterization	Aim: The aim of this study was to assess the molecular subtype profiles of male breast cancer (MBC) and subsequent clinical outcome using a validated 6-marker immunohistochemical panel. Methods: A total of 43 cases of MBC were examined retrospectively using a semiquantitative immunohistochemical analysis of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), Ki-67, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (Her2), epidermal growth factor receptor and cytokeratin 5/6. Patients were classified into the following categories: luminal A, luminal B, Her2-positive or basal-like subtypes. Results: The median age of patients was 63 years (r: 32-89). The predominant histology was invasive ductal carcinoma (91%). Only 1 patient had advanced breast cancer at diagnosis. Ninety-three percent were ER-positive and 84% were PR-positive. Two patients had tumors that were ER-and PR-negative. The distribution of tumor molecular subtypes was 19 (44%) luminal A, 22 (51%) luminal B and 2 (5%) basal-like. The Her2-positive tumor subtype was not identified. The clinicopathological characteristics did not differ significantly between tumor subtypes A and B. There were no significant differences in 6-year disease-free survival (74 vs. 82%, p = 0.77) or overall survival (74 vs. 82%, p = 0.69) between luminal A and luminal B subtypes, respectively. Conclusion: The most common subtypes in our cohort of MBC were luminal B followed by luminal A, and no differences were found between both tumor subtypes in terms of clinicopathologic characteristics and patient outcome. Copyright (C) 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A Population-Based Study of Contemporary Systemic Therapy for Male Breast Cancer.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer According to Tumor Subtype and Race: A California Cancer Registry (CCR)-Population Based Study.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Ghrelin Expression Is Associated with Favorable Outcome in Male Breast Cancer.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of Histopathological Parameters in Male Breast Cancer Reveals Differences Compared with Female Breast Cancer.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A SEER-Medicare population-based study of lymphedema-related claims incidence following breast cancer in men	Each year there are an estimated 200,000 new breast cancer cases diagnosed in the United States; of these, 1% of cases are in men. Lymphedema can be a devastating complication from breast cancer and its treatment. Currently, almost all lymphedema-related research is based on women and extrapolated to men. We conducted the first population-based study of men with incident breast cancer of any stage, diagnosed from 1998 to 2005, who were 65 years and older in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER)-Medicare linked database. We utilized claims related to lymphedema and lymphedema treatment in our cohort. We defined 'lymphedema-specific' claims to contain the word 'lymphedema' in the Medicare claim description; similarly, 'lymphedema-related' claims were defined as treatments reimbursed for lymphedema but not necessarily containing the word 'lymphedema' in the Medicare claim description. We identified 628 men with incident breast cancer from 1998 to 2005 who were 65 years and older. The cumulative incidence, censored for deaths, of lymphedema-specific claims at 2, 3, 4, and 5 years was 8.0, 9.2, 10.5, and 10.5%, respectively. The median follow-up was 3.4 years and for those without any event was 4.7 years. The cumulative incidence, censored for deaths, of lymphedema-related claims at 2, 3, 4, and 5 years was 26.9, 32.2, 35.4, and 39.8%. Rates for men were similar to analogous rates for women. Lymphedema is a common complication affecting men with breast cancer as well as women and appropriate treatment and rehabilitation strategies need to be implemented for both genders.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gene copy number variation in male breast cancer by aCGH	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease and little is known about its etiopathogenesis. Array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) provides a method to quantitatively measure the changes of DNA copy number and to map them directly onto the complete linear genome sequences. The aim of this study was to investigate DNA imbalances by aCGH and compare them with a female breast cancer dataset.We used Agilent Human Genome CGH Microarray Kit 44B and 44 K to compare genomic alterations in 25 male breast cancer tissues studied at NCC of Bari and 16 female breast cancer deposited with the Gene Expression Omnibus (GSE 12659). Data analysis was performed with Nexus Copy Number 5.0 software.All the 25 male and 16 female breast cancer samples displayed some chromosomal instability (110,93 alterations per patient in female, 69 in male). However, male samples presented a lower frequency of genetic alterations both in terms of loss and gains.aCGH is an effective tool for analysis of cytogenetic aberrations in MBC, which involves different biological processes than female. Male most significant altered regions contained genes involved in cell communication, cell division and immunological response, while female cell-cell junction maintenance, regulation of transcription and neuron development.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Similarities and differences in the characteristics and primary treatment of breast cancer in men and women - a population based study (Sweden)	Purpose. Male breast cancer (MBC) is an uncommon disease. In the absence of randomized studies, current guidelines are mainly based on data on the management of female breast cancer (FBC). In light of concerns regarding the quality and extent of management in men, the aim of the present study was to investigate whether there are differences in tumor characteristics, treatment and outcome in male compared with FBC patients. Methods. Cohorts of male and female breast cancer were retrospectively analyzed. All male patients diagnosed with invasive breast cancer between 1993 and 2007 were identified from the Regional Breast Cancer Register of the Uppsala-rebro Region in Sweden. To increase the power of the study and obtain comparable cohorts we sampled four FBC patients (n = 396) for each MBC patient (n = 99) with similar age at diagnosis and time of diagnosis. Results. No differences were seen in stage at diagnosis between MBC and FBC. Men underwent mastectomy more often than women (92% vs. 44%, p < 0.001). Radiotherapy was delivered less often to MBC than FBC (44% vs. 56%, p = 0.034), but radiotherapy given after mastectomy (44% vs. 39%, p = 0.47) did not differ between the groups. No differences were found regarding adjuvant chemotherapy (16% vs. 21%; p = 0.31) or adjuvant endocrine therapy (59% vs. 52%, p = 0.24). Both overall survival (41% vs. 55%, p = 0.001) and relative survival (74% vs. 88%, p = 0.015) were inferior in MBC compared to FBC. Conclusion. Concerns regarding less extensive treatment in MBC patients were not supported by this study. Although no differences in the stage of the disease or treatment intensity could be demonstrated, outcome was inferior in the male group.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	High-resolution genomic profiling of male breast cancer reveals differences hidden behind the similarities with female breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is extremely rare and poorly characterized on the molecular level. Using high-resolution genomic data, we aimed to characterize MBC by genomic imbalances and to compare it with female breast cancer (FBC), and further to investigate whether the genomic profiles hold any prognostic information. Fifty-six fresh frozen MBC tumors were analyzed using high-resolution tiling BAC arrays. Significant regions in common between cases were assessed using Genomic Identification of Significant Targets in Cancer (GISTIC) analysis. A publicly available genomic data set of 359 FBC tumors was used for reference purposes. The data revealed a broad pattern of aberrations, confirming that MBC is a heterogeneous tumor type. Genomic gains were more common in MBC than in FBC and often involved whole chromosome arms, while losses of genomic material were less frequent. The most common aberrations were similar between the genders, but high-level amplifications were more common in FBC. We identified two genomic subgroups among MBCs; male-complex and male-simple. The male-complex subgroup displayed striking similarities with the previously reported luminal-complex FBC subgroup, while the male-simple subgroup seems to represent a new subgroup of breast cancer occurring only in men. There are many similarities between FBC and MBC with respect to genomic imbalances, but there are also distinct differences as revealed by high-resolution genomic profiling. MBC can be divided into two comprehensive genomic subgroups, which may be of prognostic value. The male-simple subgroup appears notably different from any genomic subgroup so far defined in FBC.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Androgens and Breast Cancer in Men and Women	Abundant clinical evidence suggests that androgens normally inhibit mammary epithelial proliferation and breast growth. Clinical and nonhuman primate studies support the notion that androgens inhibit mammary proliferation and, thus, may protect from breast cancer. On the other hand, administration of conventional estrogen treatment suppresses endogenous androgens and may, thus, enhance estrogenic breast stimulation and possibly breast cancer risk. Addition of testosterone to the usual hormone therapy regimen may diminish the estrogen/progestin increase in breast cancer risk, but the impact of this combined use on mammary gland homeostasis still needs evaluation.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer (MBC): Optimal Treatment and Diagnosis Factors - Analysis of 636 Cases		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Does 18FDG-PET/CT modify the treatment strategy in stage I-III breast cancer patients?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Androgen receptor polyglutamine tract length in Egyptian male breast cancer patients	Male Breast Cancer (MBC) is a rare disease in the U.S., accounting for less than 1% of all breast cancers. Rates of MBC in Africa are more variable than in the U.S., therefore, understanding the risk factors involved in a population like Egypt can clarify the nature of MBC. The polyglutamine tract (QT) is a variable region of the androgen receptor (AR), a nuclear receptor which is important in modulating androgen actions and generally inhibits growth in breast tissue. It is hypothesized that a long QT results in weaker AR activity over the lifetime, resulting in less AR mediated control over cellular division and higher risk of MBC. As a corollary, we expect to see a distribution skewed toward longer QTs in MBC patients compared to controls and overall relatively longer QT's in populations with higher rates of MBC. This study aimed to investigate for the first time the distribution of AR QT lengths among MBC patients in Egypt. Paraffin-embedded tumor tissues from 44 Egyptian MBC patients were analyzed for this polymorphism. Amplification followed by fragment length analysis revealed QT length. For the control series, blood from 43 Egyptian males without a family or personal history of breast or prostate cancers was collected and analyzed similarly. There was no significant difference between patients and controls with respect to mean QT length (P = 0.84; means were 19.5 +/- A 2.8 and 19.3 +/- A 4.2, for patients and controls, respectively). Though, short QT lengths were more prevalent among controls (14.0%), but almost absent in cases (2.3%). Although the mean lengths were not different in cases and controls, the near absence of short tracts in cases suggests a possible protective effect of very short QT lengths against MBC. In populations in which there is variable incidence of MBC by region, investigations of the distribution of AR QT lengths are warranted to further delineate its role as a risk factor in MBC.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer - neglected tumour		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Which individuals undergoing BRACAnalysis need BART testing?	Deleterious mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 include those identified by sequencing technology as well as large genomic rearrangements (LGR). The main testing laboratory in the United States, Myriad Genetics Laboratory (MGL), has defined criteria for inclusion of LGR testing (i.e., BRACAnalysis Rearrangement Test, or BART (TM)) when BRCA1 and BRCA2 testing is ordered. We were interested in determining how many of our patients with LGR mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 fulfilled these MGL criteria. A retrospective chart review was performed on all individuals who underwent genetic testing at our institution since August 2006. Individuals who underwent LGR testing were classified as either having or not having a LGR in BRCA1 or BRCA2. Each individual's history was classified as meeting MGL defined LGR criteria, meeting criteria using third-degree relatives, or not meeting criteria. A total of 257 BART tests were ordered at our institution from August 2006 to August 2009. Five individuals (1.9%) had an LGR mutation. Two LGR were identified in patients who met MGL defined LGR criteria. One LGR was identified in a patient that met MGL defined LGR criteria only when using third-degree relatives. Two LGR were identified in individuals who did not meet MGL defined criteria. LGR are present in individuals who do not have a high pretest probability of carrying a mutation in BRCA1 or BRCA2. These data suggest that when BRCA1 and BRCA2 genetic testing is performed, testing should always include LGR testing so that the results are the most comprehensive and reliable.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Audit: Histological Reports of Breast Lesions in Pathology Department of Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital Kumasi, Ghana in 2010		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Bilateral cribriform ductal proliferation in the male breast; a mimicker of female cribriform atypical ductal hyperplasia?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	GAD-ab-associated movement disorder in a male patient with breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	MALE BREAST CANCER-GEOGRAPHIC VARIATION IN THE UNITED STATES		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gene expression analysis reveals a different transcriptomic landscape in female and male breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a poorly characterized disease because of its rarity. Clinical management is based on results obtained from randomized trials conducted in women notwithstanding data in the literature suggesting relevant gender-associated differences in terms of biological and clinical behavior. However, a genome-wide characterization of MBC on a transcriptional level is lacking. In this study, gene expression profiles of 37 estrogen receptor positive (ER+) MBC specimens were compared to that of 53 ER+ Female Breast Cancer (FBC) samples similar for clinical and patho-biological features. Almost 1000 genes were found differentially expressed (FDR < 1%) between female and male patients and biological interpretation highlighted a gender-associated modulation of key biological processes ranging from energy metabolism to regulation of translation and matrix remodeling as well as immune system recruitment. Moreover, an analysis of genes correlated to steroid receptors and ERBB2 suggested a prominent role for the androgen receptor in MBC with a minor relevance for progesterone receptor and ERBB2, although, similarly to FBC, a genomic amplification could be observed. Our findings support the idea that breast cancer is a quite different disease in male and female patients and the underlying gender-related biological differences are likely to have clinical implications connected with different susceptibility to treatment.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	DIFFERENCES IN MALE BREAST CANCER STAGE, TUMOR SIZE AT DIAGNOSIS, AND SURVIVAL RATE BETWEEN METROPOLITAN AND NONMETROPOLITAN REGIONS		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	PALB2 analysis in BRCA2-like families	BRCA2 and PALB2 function together in the Fanconi anemia (FA)-Breast Cancer (BRCA) pathway. Mono-allelic and bi-allelic BRCA2 and PALB2 mutation carriers share many clinical characteristics. Mono-allelic germline mutations of BRCA2 and PALB2 are risk alleles of female breast cancer and have also been reported in familial pancreatic cancer, and bi-allelic mutations cause a severe form of Fanconi anemia. In view of these similarities, we investigated whether the prevalence of PALB2 mutations was increased in breast cancer families with the occurrence of BRCA2 associated tumours other than female breast cancer. PALB2 mutation analysis was performed in 110 non-BRCA1/2 cancer patients: (a) 53 ovarian cancer patients from female breast-and/or ovarian cancer families; (b) 45 breast cancer patients with a first or second degree relative with pancreatic cancer; and (c) 12 male breast cancer patients from female breast cancer families. One truncating PALB2 mutation, c.509_510delGA, resulting in p.Arg170X, was found in a male breast cancer patient. We conclude that germline mutations of PALB2 do not significantly contribute to cancer risk in non-BRCA1/2 cancer families with at least one patient with ovarian cancer, male breast cancer, and/or pancreatic cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer risk among patients with Klinefelter syndrome	Aim:To evaluate male breast cancer (MBC) risk among patients with Klinefelter syndrome (KS) and relate this to possible biological explanations.Methods:A literature review was conducted to identify case series and epidemiologic studies that have evaluated MBC risk among patients with KS.Results:Case reports without expected values have often led to false impressions of risk. Problems include that a diagnosis of cancer can prompt a karyotypic evaluation and that many cases of KS are unrecognized, resulting in incomplete denominators. Few carefully conducted epidemiologic studies have been undertaken given that both KS and MBC are rare events. The largest study found 19.2- and 57.8-fold increases in incidence and mortality, respectively, with particularly high risks among 47,XXY mosaics. These risks were still approximately 70% lower than among females, contradicting case reports that patients with KS have breast cancer rates similar to females. Altered hormone levels (especially the ratio of oestrogens to androgens), administration of exogenous androgens, gynaecomastia and genetic factors have been offered as possible explanations for the high risks.Conclusions:Additional well-designed epidemiologic studies are needed to clarify which patients with KS are at a high risk of developing MBC and to distinguish between possible predisposing factors, including altered endogenous hormones.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	ADJUVANT RADIOTHERAPY IN MALE BREAST CANCER - LONG-TERM RESULTS AND PROGNOSTIC FACTORS		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	PROBABILITY MODEL FOR PREDICTING BRCA1 AND BRCA2 MUTATIONS IN SPANISH FAMILIES WITH BREAST CANCER		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Mutations in BRCA2 and PALB2 in male breast cancer cases from the United States	Male breast cancer (MBC) is an uncommon disease with a frequency of approximately one in 1000. Due to the rarity of MBC, it is understudied and its etiology is poorly understood. Our objectives are to determine the frequency of pathogenic mutations in BRCA2 and PALB2 in MBC cases and to investigate the correlations between mutation status and cancer phenotypes. Single strand conformation polymorphism analysis, direct sequencing, and multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification were employed to screen for mutations in the BRCA2 gene, followed by direct sequencing of the PALB2 gene in BRCA2-negative MBC cases. Pathogenic BRCA2 mutations were identified in 18 of the 115 MBC cases, including four of the ten cases (40%) from breast cancer families and 14 of the 105 cases (13%) unselected for family history of breast cancer. The difference in BRCA2-mutation frequencies between cases with and without family history of breast cancer was not statistically significant (P = 0.145), suggesting that family history is not a strong predictor of carrying a mutation in males. We observed a highly significant association of carrying a pathogenic BRCA2 mutation with high tumor grade (P < 0.001) and a weak association with positive lymph nodes (P < 0.02). Of the 97 BRCA2-negative MBC cases, we identified one PALB2 mutation with confirmed pathogenicity and one mutation predicted to be pathogenic, a prevalence of pathogenic PALB2-mutation of 1-2%. Based on our results and previous studies, genetic testing for BRCA2 should be recommended for any diagnosed MBC case, regardless of family history of breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumours Associated with Other Cancers		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Mutation analysis of BRIP1 in male breast cancer cases: a population-based study in Central Italy	Breast cancer (BC) in men is rare compared with BC in women, but its incidence is increasing along with attention toward this uncommon disease. Although with some differences, male and female BC share similar genetic predisposition factors, including BRCA1/2, CHEK2, and PALB2 mutations. As other BRCA1/2 functionally related DNA repair genes, such as CHEK2 and PALB2, BRIP1 is considered a moderate-penetrance BC susceptibility gene. At present, the role of BRIP1 on BC susceptibility in men is unknown. In this study, we aimed to assess whether BRIP1 variants may contribute to male BC (MBC) risk, by screening 97 MBC cases, all negative for BRCA1/2, CHEK2, and PALB2 mutations, selected from a population-based series of 126 MBCs from Central Italy. A total of five BRIP1 germ-line sequence alterations, three coding, and two non-coding variants, were detected in our series. The two non-coding variants IVS4-28G > A and 3'UTR 4049C > T were classified as neutral by in silico analysis. Of the three coding variants, one was a silent variant (E879E) and two resulted in amino acid substitution (R264W and P919S) showing a putative pathogenic role by in silico analysis. However, further analysis of tumor-associated loss of heterozygosity and the frequency of variant alleles, tested in 203 male population controls, suggested a neutral effect for both of these variants. Overall, our results indicate that BRIP1 variants may not play a relevant role in MBC predisposition.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Contribution of Inherited Mutations in the BRCA2-Interacting Protein PALB2 to Familial Breast Cancer	Inherited mutations in the BRCA2-interacting protein PALB2 are known to be associated with increased risks of developing breast cancer. To evaluate the contribution of PALB2 to familial breast cancer in the United States, we sequenced the coding sequences and flanking regulatory regions of the gene from constitutional genomic DNA of 1,144 familial breast cancer patients with wild-type sequences at BRCA1 and BRCA2. Overall, 3.4% (33/972) of patients not selected by ancestry and 0% (0/172) of patients specifically of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry were heterozygous for a nonsense, frameshift, or frameshift-associated splice mutation in PALB2. Mutations were detected in both male and female breast cancer patients. All mutations were individually rare: the 33 heterozygotes harbored 13 different mutations, 5 previously reported and 8 novel mutations. PALB2 heterozygotes were 4-fold more likely to have a male relative with breast cancer (P = 0.0003), 6-fold more likely to have a relative with pancreatic cancer (P = 0.002), and 1.3-fold more likely to have a relative with ovarian cancer (P = 0.18). Compared with their female relatives without mutations, increased risk of developing breast cancer for female PALB2 heterozygotes was 2.3-fold (95% CI: 1.5-4.2) by age 55 and 3.4-fold (95% CI: 2.4-5.9) by age 85. Loss of the wild-type PALB2 allele was observed in laser-dissected tumor specimens from heterozygous patients. Given this mutation prevalence and risk, consideration might be given to clinical testing of PALB2 by complete genomic sequencing for familial breast cancer patients with wild-type sequences at BRCA1 and BRCA2. Cancer Res; 71(6); 2222-9. (C) 2011 AACR.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Descriptive results of surgical treatment for breast cancer: A 30-year experience in the northeast of China		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	EMMA, a Cost- and Time-Effective Diagnostic Method for Simultaneous Detection of Point Mutations and Large-Scale Genomic Rearrangements: Application to BRCA1 and BRCA2 in 1,525 Patients	The detection of unknown mutations remains a serious challenge and, despite the expected benefits for the patient's health, a large number of genes are not screened on a routine basis. We present the diagnostic application of EMMA (Enhanced Mismatch Mutation Analysis (R), Fluigent, Paris, France), a novel method based on heteroduplex analysis by capillary electrophoresis using innovative matrices. BRCA1 and BRCA2 were screened for point mutations and large rearrangements in 1,525 unrelated patients (372 for the validation step and 1,153 in routine diagnosis) using a single analytical condition. Seven working days were needed for complete BRCA1/2 screening in 30 patients by one technician (excluding DNA extraction and sequencing). A total of 137 mutations were found, including a BRCA2 duplication of exons 19 and 20, previously missed by Comprehensive BRACAnalysis (R). The mutation detection rate was 11.9%, which is consistent with patient inclusions. This study therefore suggests that EMMA represents a valuable short-term and midterm option for many diagnostic laboratories looking for an easy, reliable, and affordable strategy, enabling fast and sensitive analysis for a large number of genes. Hum Mutat 32:325-334, 2011. (C) 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Cyclin D1 and CYCLIN E Expression Analysis in Pakistani Breast Tumors Linked with BRCA1 Mutations.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Genomic Large Rearrangement Screening of BRCA1 and BRCA2 Genes in High-Risk Turkish Breast/Ovarian Cancer Patients by Using Multiplex Ligation-Dependent Probe Amplification Assay	In this study, MLPA assay was performed for detection of large rearrangements of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes in 16 familial, 29 early onset, 3 male breast cancer, and 2 bilateral breast/ovarian cancer high risk Turkish index cases. MLPA assay for all exons of both genes and for 1100delC variant of CHEK2 gene were performed. Analyses, revealed no large genomic rearrangements in both genes, and, no 1100del variant in CHEK2 gene. Our data which represents the first results for Turkish patients, suggest that, the frequency of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes' large rearrangements is very low.</.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Negative impact of endocrine-disrupting compounds on human reproductive health	There is increasing concern about chemical pollutants that are able to mimic hormones, the so-called endocrine-disrupting compounds (EDCs), because of their structural similarity to endogenous hormones, their ability to interact with hormone transport proteins or because of their potential to disrupt hormone metabolic pathways. Thus, the effects of endogenous hormones can be mimicked or, in some cases, completely blocked. A substantial number of environmental pollutants, such as polychlorinated biphenyls, dioxins, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, phthalates, bisphenol A, pesticides, alkylphenols and heavy metals (arsenic, cadmium, lead, mercury), have been shown to disrupt endocrine function. These compounds can cause reproductive problems by decreasing sperm count and quality, increasing the number of testicular germ cells and causing male breast cancer, cryptorchidism, hypospadias, miscarriages, endometriosis, impaired fertility, irregularities of the menstrual cycle, and infertility. Although EDCs may be released into the environment in different ways, the main sources is industrial waste water. The present paper critically reviews the current knowledge of the impact of EDCs on reproductive disorders in humans.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	High-Resolution Genomic Profiling of Male Breast Cancer Reveals Differences behind the Similarities with Female Breast Cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Changes in therapeutic strategies in Chinese male patients with breast cancer: 40 years of experience in a single institute	The changes in therapeutic strategies were determined and the efficacy of radical mastectomy (RM) and modified radical mastectomy (MRM) on Chinese male breast cancer (MBC) patients was compared. Seventy MBC patients, with a median age of 61 years, were enrolled. The characteristics of MBC were compared in cohort A (1969-1997) and cohort B (1998-2009), and the prognosis was compared between the RM and MRM groups. Infiltrating ductal carcinoma accounted for 81.4% of all cases; 93.7% were estrogen receptor (ER)/progesterone receptor (PR)-positive. More patients in cohort B accepted multidisciplinary treatment, MRM, adjuvant chemotherapy, and endocrine therapy than those in cohort A; however, the 5-year overall survival rates were similar in the two cohorts. The overall survival curves, locoregional recurrence rates, and systematic metastatic rates were similar in the RM and MRM groups. Currently, more MBC patients receive conservative surgery; MRM may be equally effective as RM for MBC. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Screening for genomic rearrangements in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes in Czech high-risk breast/ovarian cancer patients: high proportion of population specific alterations in BRCA1 gene	Large genomic rearrangements (LGR) represent substantial proportion of pathogenic mutations in the BRCA1 gene, whereas the frequency of rearrangements in the BRCA2 gene is low in many populations. We screened for LGRs in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) in 521 unrelated patients negative for BRCA1/2 point mutations selected from 655 Czech high-risk breast and/or ovarian cancer patients. Besides long range PCR, a chromosome 17-specific oligonucleotide-based array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) was used for accurate location of deletions. We identified 14 patients carrying 8 different LGRs in BRCA1 that accounted for 12.3% of all pathogenic BRCA1 mutations. No LGRs were detected in the BRCA2 gene. In a subgroup of 239 patients from high-risk families, we found 12 LGRs (5.0%), whereas two LGRs were revealed in a subgroup of 282 non-familial cancer cases (0.7%). Five LGRs (deletion of exons 1-17, 5-10, 13-19, 18-22 and 21-24) were novel; two LGRs (deletion of exons 5-14 and 21-22) belong to the already described Czech-specific mutations; one LGR (deletion of exons 1-2) was reported from several countries. The deletions of exons 1-17 and 5-14, identified each in four families, represented Czech founder mutations. The present study indicates that screening for LGRs in BRCA1 should include patients from breast or ovarian cancer families as well as high-risk patients with non-familial cancer, in particular cases with early-onset breast or ovarian cancer. On the contrary, our analyses do not support the need to screen for LGRs in the BRCA2 gene. Implementation of chromosome-specific aCGH could markedly facilitate the design of primers for amplification and sequence analysis of junction fragments, especially in deletions overlapping gene boundaries.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Searching for large genomic rearrangements of the BRCA1 gene in a Nigerian population	BRCA1/2 germline mutations predispose to breast and ovarian cancer. Large genomic rearrangements (LGRs) have widened the mutational spectrum of the BRCA1 gene, but the frequencies vary in different populations. In this study, we want to determine the spectrum of LGRs in BRCA1 gene in Nigerian breast cancer patients. The multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) assay was used to screen BRCA1 rearrangements in 352 patients who previously tested negative for BRCA1 and BRCA2 point mutations and small insertions/deletions. Positive MLPA result was confirmed and located by long-range PCR. The breakpoints of the candidate rearrangement were characterized by sequencing. A novel deletion of BRCA1 exon 21 (c.5277 + 480_5332 + 672del) was detected in 1 out of 352 Nigerian breast cancer patients (0.3% occurrence frequency). Further analysis of breakpoints revealed that the deletion involves two Alu-elements: one AluSg in intron 20 and the AluY in intron 21. These data suggest that while BRCA1 genomic rearrangement exists, they do not contribute significantly to BRCA1-associated risk in the Nigerian population.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Association of CYP1B1 with hypersensitivity induced by Taxane therapy in breast cancer patients	Taxanes represent a group of anticancer drugs with a wide range of activity against breast cancer. Therapy side effects include haematologic toxicity (neutropenia, leucopenia), peripheral neuropathy and hypersensitivity, and demonstrate inter-individual variations. Since it is known that three genes are implicated in Taxane turnover, namely ABCB1 in the transport, CYP2C8 in the metabolism and CYP1B1 in the activity, we explored the association among polymorphisms (single nucleotide polymorphisms, SNPs) in these three genes and the occurrence of Taxane-induced toxicity. We studied 95 patients affected by breast cancer and under treatment with Taxanes as adjuvant, metastatic or neo-adjuvant therapy. We genotyped them for SNPs in the CYP2C8 (alleles *1, *2, *3 and *4), CYP1B1 (alleles *1 and *3) and ABCB1 (1236 C > T; 2677 G > T/A; 3435 C > T) genes by real-time PCR assay. We observed a significant association between the CYP1B1*3 allele and a lower occurrence of hypersensitivity reactions to Taxane treatment. We speculate that the highest production of 4-hydroxyestradiol (4-OHE2) metabolite by CYP1B1*3 allele could increase the formation of the 4-OHE2-Taxane adduct and possibly inhibit Taxane toxicity. We suggest that CYP1B1 might affect Taxane hypersensitivity therefore representing, if confirmed in a large cohort of patients, an exploratory hypersensitivity predictive biomarker.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	DISPARITIES IN THE USE OF RADIATION THERAPY IN PATIENTS WITH LOCAL-REGIONALLY ADVANCED BREAST CANCER	Background: Radiation therapy (RT) is indicated for the treatment of local-regionally advanced breast cancer (BCa). Hypothesis: We hypothesized that black and Hispanic patients with local-regionally advanced BCa would receive lower rates of RT than their white counterparts.Methods: The Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results database was used to identify white, black, Hispanic, and Asian patients with invasive BCa and >= 10 metastatic lymph nodes diagnosed between 1988 and 2005. Univariate and multivariate logistic regression evaluated the relationship of race/ethnicity with use of RT. Multivariate models stratified for those undergoing mastectomy or lumpectomy.Results: Entry criteria were met by 12,653 patients. Approximately half of the patients did not receive RT. Most patients were white (72%); the remainder were Hispanic (10.4%), black (10.3%), and Asian (7.3%). On univariate analysis, Hispanics (odd ratio [OR] 0.89; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.79-1.00) and blacks (OR 0.79; 95% CI, 0.70-0.89) were less likely to receive RT than whites. On multivariate analysis, blacks (OR 0.76; 95% CI, 0.67-0.86) and Hispanics (OR 0.80; 95% CI, 0.70-0.90) were less likely than whites to receive RT. Disparities persisted for blacks (OR 0.74; 95% CI, 0.64-0.85) and Hispanics (OR 0.77; 95% CI, 0.67-0.89) who received mastectomy, but not for those who received lumpectomy.Conclusions: Many patients with local-regionally advanced BCa do not receive RT. Blacks and Hispanics were less likely than whites to receive RT. This disparity was noted predominately in patients who received mastectomy. Future efforts at improving rates of RT are warranted. Efforts at eliminating racial/ethnic disparities should focus on black and Hispanic candidates for postmastectomy RT. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Absence of CHEK2*1100delC mutation in families with hereditary breast cancer in North America	The CHEK2*1100delC mutation has been reported to confer a twofold increased risk of breast cancer among carriers. The frequency of the mutation varies among populations. The highest frequency has been described in Northern and Eastern European countries; the frequency may be much lower in North America. In this study, our aim was to determine the frequency of CHEK2*1100delC in members of breast cancer families who tested negative for a deleterious mutation in BRCA1/2 at the University of Michigan Comprehensive Cancer Center. We genotyped 102 members from 90 families for CHEK2*1100delC. Most of these families had several cases of breast cancer or ovarian cancer (or both), as well as multiple members with other cancer types in a single lineage. No CHEK2*1100delC mutations were detected in any of the 102 individuals, including 51 women diagnosed with breast cancer at an early age (<45 years), 8 women with bilateral breast cancer, 3 men with breast cancer, and 8 women with ovarian cancer. Our data are consistent with the reported very low frequency of CHEK2*1100delC mutations in North American populations (compared with Northern Europe), rendering CHEK2*1100delC such an unlikely culprit in BRCA1/2 negative families that routine testing of these families appears unwarranted. (C) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer	Male breast cancer accounts for around 1% of all breast cancer cases, but the incidence has increased over the past 25 years. The rarity of this entity precludes prospective randomized clinical trials. Although breast carcinoma in both genders share certain characteristics, notable differences have emerged. Familial cases usually have BRCA2 rather than BRCA1 mutations. Klinefelter syndrome is the strongest risk factor for developing male breast carcinoma. Men tend to be diagnosed at an older age than women. Presentation is usually a painless lump, but is often late, with more than 40% of individuals having stage III or IV disease. When survival is adjusted for age at diagnosis and stage of disease, outcomes for male and female patients with breast cancer is similar. Surgery is usually mastectomy with axillary clearance or sentinel node biopsy. Because 90% of tumors are hormonal receptor positive, tamoxifen is standard adjuvant therapy. Indications for radiotherapy and chemotherapy are similar to female breast cancer. For metastatic disease, hormonal therapy is the main treatment, but chemotherapy can also provide palliation. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Chinese female breast cancer patients show a better overall survival than their male counterparts	Backgroud It is not clear if there is a difference in prognosis between male breast cancer (MBC) and female breast cancer (FBC) patients. The aim of this study was to compare the prognosis of MBC and FBC patients in China and the prognosis of MBC and their corresponding postmenopausal FBC patients.Methods Thirty-five MBC patients who were treated at the Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center between 1969 and 2004 were enrolled in the study. Seventy FBC patients who were matched with the MBC patients for TNM stage, year of diagnosis, and age at diagnosis were simultaneously enrolled in the study. A second group comprising 18 MBC patients and their corresponding 36 matched postmenopausal FBC patients were also enrolled. The whole group and the postmenopausal groups were compared for five- and ten-year survivals.Results All the factors that could potentially affect prognosis were comparable among the groups except more FBC than MBC patients underwent endocrine therapy and a modified radical mastectomy. The 5- and 10-year survivals in the whole group were 81.6% and 60.3% for men and 90.7% and 73.5% for women (P=0.02). The 5- and 10-year survival in the postmenopausal group was 82.5% and 100% for men and 66.0% and 85.9% for women (P=0.159).Conclusions Chinese FBC patients had a better prognosis than Chinese MBC patients. However, MBC patients and their corresponding postmenopausal FBC patients had a similar prognosis. Chin Med J 2010;123(17):2347-2352	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Versus Female Breast Cancer: Study of 523 Matched Cases Reveals Differences Behind Similarity		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer in man. A challenge for the urologist	Male breast cancer (male BC) accounts for < 1% of all cancers in men, showing an increasing incidence with a peak in the sixth decade. Overall, men experience a worse prognosis than women, probably due to an advanced stage together with the higher age at diagnosis of male patients. Major risk factors for developing male BC include clinical disorders involving hormonal imbalances (excess of estrogen or a deficiency of testosterone as seen in patients with Klinefelter syndrome) and a positive family history for breast cancer. About 90% of male BC are invasive ductal carcinomas. Standard treatment for localized cancer is surgical removal. Adjuvant radiation and systemic therapy are the same as in women with breast cancer. Male BC expresses hormone receptors in about 90% of cases; therefore, tamoxifen is a therapeutic option. A future challenge for the urologist or andrologist is to diagnose the disease at an early stage to improve prognosis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer in Men in the United States A Population-Based Study of Diagnosis, Treatment, and Survival	BACKGROUND: Breast cancer in men is rare, so clinical trials are not practical. Recommendations suggest treating men who are diagnosed with breast cancer using the guidelines for postmenopausal women; however, to date, no population-based studies have evaluated patterns of care. METHODS: To examine characteristics, treatment, and survival among men with newly diagnosed breast cancer, in 2003 and 2004, 512 men were identified from the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results Program. Data were reabstracted and therapy was verified through the patients' treating physicians. RESULTS: The majority of men (79%) were diagnosed through discovery of a breast lump or other signs/symptoms. Among men who had invasive disease, 86% underwent mastectomy, 37% received chemotherapy, and 58% received hormone therapy. In multivariate analysis, tumor size (P = .01) and positive lymph node status (P < .0001) were associated positively with the use of chemotherapy, whereas age group (P < .0001) and current unmarried status (P = .01) had negative associations. Among men who had invasive, estrogen receptor (ER)-positive/borderline tumors, the use of tamoxifen or aromatase inhibitors (Als) was associated with age group (P = .05). Among men who had invasive disease, cancer mortality was associated with tumor size (P < .0001). Among men with ER-positive/borderline disease, increased cancer mortality was associated with tumor size (P < .0001), current unmarried status (P = .04), and decreased mortality with tamoxifen (P = .04). CONCLUSIONS: Tumor characteristics and marital status were the primary predictors of therapy and cancer mortality among men with breast cancer. Although Als are not currently recommended, they are commonly prescribed. However, their use did not result in a decrease in cancer mortality. Research must examine the efficacy of Als with and without gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogues. Cancer 2010;116;3558-68. (C) 2010 American Cancer Society.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prospective Evaluation of Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA) and Carbohydrate Antigen 15.3 (CA 15.3) in Patients with Primary Locoregional Breast Cancer	BACKGROUND: The utility of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and carbohydrate antigen 15.3 (CA 15.3) as prognostic factors in primary breast cancer is unclear.METHODS: We prospectively studied CEA and CA 15.3 in the sera of 2062 patients with untreated primary breast cancer diagnosed between 1984 and 2008.RESULTS: Increased CEA (>5 mu g/L) and CA 15.3 (>30 kU/L) concentrations were found in 12.7% and 19.6% of the patients, respectively, and 1 or both tumor markers were increased in 28% (570 of 2062). Increases in each tumor marker correlated with larger tumor sizes and nodal involvement. Tumor size, estrogen receptor (ER), and CEA were independent prognostic factors by multivariate analysis in the total group [disease free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS)] as well as in node-positive (NP) and node-negative (NN) patients. Nodal involvement and histological grade were independent prognostic factors in the total group as well as in NP patients. By contrast, adjuvant treatment and CA 15.3 were independent prognostic factors only in NN patients (DFS and OS). All patients with CEA >7.5 mu g/L had recurrence during follow-up. Use of both tumor markers allowed discrimination of the groups of risk in T1 NN patients: 56.3% of recurrences were seen when 1 or both tumor markers were increased, whereas only 9.4% of recurrences were seen in T1 NN patients without increases of either marker.CONCLUSIONS: CEA and CA 15.3 are useful prognostic factors in NP and NN breast cancer patients. CEA >7.5 g/L is associated with a high probability of subclinical metastases. (c) 2010 American Association for Clinical Chemistry	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Role of EGFR, HER2 and PIK3CA alterations in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Analysis of BRIP1 in italian male breast cancer patients		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Testosterone Therapy in Men with Androgen Deficiency Syndromes: An Endocrine Society Clinical Practice Guideline	Objective: Our objective was to update the guidelines for the evaluation and treatment of androgen deficiency syndromes in adult men published previously in 2006.Participants: The Task Force was composed of a chair, selected by the Clinical Guidelines Subcommittee of The Endocrine Society, five additional experts, a methodologist, and a medical writer. The Task Force received no corporate funding or remuneration.Conclusions: We recommend making a diagnosis of androgen deficiency only in men with consistent symptoms and signs and unequivocally low serum testosterone levels. We suggest the measurement of morning total testosterone level by a reliable assay as the initial diagnostic test. We recommend confirmation of the diagnosis by repeating the measurement of morning total testosterone and, in some men in whom total testosterone is near the lower limit of normal or in whom SHBG abnormality is suspected by measurement of free or bioavailable testosterone level, using validated assays. We recommend testosterone therapy for men with symptomatic androgen deficiency to induce and maintain secondary sex characteristics and to improve their sexual function, sense of well-being, muscle mass and strength, and bone mineral density. We recommend against starting testosterone therapy in patients with breast or prostate cancer, a palpable prostate nodule or induration or prostate-specific antigen greater than 4 ng/ml or greater than 3 ng/ml in men at high risk for prostate cancer such as African-Americans or men with first-degree relatives with prostate cancer without further urological evaluation, hematocrit greater than 50%, untreated severe obstructive sleep apnea, severe lower urinary tract symptoms with International Prostate Symptom Score above 19, or uncontrolled or poorly controlled heart failure. When testosterone therapy is instituted, we suggest aiming at achieving testosterone levels during treatment in the mid-normal range with any of the approved formulations, chosen on the basis of the patient's preference, consideration of pharmacokinetics, treatment burden, and cost. Men receiving testosterone therapy should be monitored using a standardized plan. (J Clin Endocrinol Metab 95: 2536-2559, 2010)	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: An update in diagnosis, treatment and molecular profiling (vol 65, pg 308, 2010)		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Is Cytology Useful in the Diagnostic Workup of Male Breast Lesions? A Retrospective Study Over a 16-Year Period and Review of the Recent Literature	ObjectiveTo determine the value of cytology in the workup of male breast lesions, important for the management in a same-day breast clinic.Study DesignA total of 146 fine needle aspirations (FNAs) from the male breast were classified in the categories malignant, suspicious, atypical, benign and inadequate. Cytohistologic correlation was done.ResultsHistologic correlation was available in 85 cases. On FNA the 15 malignant cases were classified as malignant (n=11), suspicious for malignancy (n=2) or atypical (n=2). Of the 35 benign lesions on histology 3 cases were classified as atypia and 1 as suspicious for malignancy on FNA. In the inadequate FNAs (n=45), the corresponding histologic specimens were benign, no carcinomas were diagnosed. The sensitivity and specificity of the FNA compared to the definite resection diagnosis were 100% and 90.2%, respectively. The results were comparable with the outcomes of the reviewed studies on male breast lesions in the recent literature.ConclusionBased on the nature of the benign breast lesions in man, a substantial number of inadequate FNAs were obtained. However, due to the good cytohistologic correlations in the group of malignant lesions, we can conclude that cytology remains an important diagnostic tool in the initial workup of male breast carcinomas. (Acta Cytol 2010;54:259-264)	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Are PALB2 mutations associated with increased risk of male breast cancer?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: An update in diagnosis, treatment and molecular profiling	Significant advances have been made in the diagnosis and treatment of female breast cancer, resulting in a decline in incidence and a global improvement in clinical outcome. The statistics for male breast cancer (MBC) stand in sharp contrast over the past several decades, there has been a steady rise in the incidence of this disease, and clinical outcome has improved at a much slower pace. In the current review, the clinicopathologic features of MBC are described in detail. An emphasis is placed on molecular profiling of MBC, which may identify candidate biomarkers and putative targets for pharmacologic intervention. The current role of cytotoxic chemotherapy and endocrine therapy (including tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors and GnRH analogues) is defined in the context of currently available studies. Furthermore, the potential role of targeted agents, including HER2-directed therapies, PARP inhibitors, and angiogenesis inhibitors, is delineated. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Frequency and risk factors of male breast cancer in Egypt and Morocco		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Familial demonstration of the involvement of E-cadherine germline mutation in inherited invasive lobular breast carcinomas		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gasoline: A complex chemical mixture, or a dangerous vehicle for benzene exposure?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer. Evolution of treatment and prognostic factors. Analysis of 489 cases	Background: Infiltrating MBC represents less than 1% of all male cancers. Our study details clinico-pathological features, treatments and prognostic factors in a large French cohort.Material and methods: Four hundred and eighty-nine patients were collected from 1990 to 2005. Median age was 66 years (34% over 70 years) and median follow-up 58 months.Results: According to TN classification, we found T-1: 39%, T-2: 41%, T3T4: 9%, T-x: 11% and N1N2: 27%. Lumpectomy (L) and mastectomy (M) were performed in 8.6% and 91.4% of the cases. Axillary dissection (AD), sentinel node biopsy or both were performed in 90%, 2% and 5% of the cases, respectively. Ninety-five percent of tumours were ductal carcinomas; 47% were pT(1), 20% pT(2) and 33% pT(3)-T-4. Axillary nodal involvement was present in 52.8% cases. ER and PgR were positive in 92% and 89% cases. Radiotherapy (RT) was performed in 85% of the patients. Hormonal treatment (HT) was delivered in 72% of the cases. Tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors were used in 85% and 12% of the cases; 34% of the patients received chemotherapy (CT).Local recurrence (LIZ), nodal recurrences (NR) and metastases occurred in 2%,5% and 22% of the cases; 2% and 10% developed contralateral BC and second cancer. The 5- and 10-year overall survival (OS) rates were 81% and 59%; disease-specific survivals (DSS) were 89% and 72%. Death causes were BC 56%, second cancer 8%, complications 3%, intercurrent disease 15% and unknown 18%. In a univariate analysis, metastatic risk factors were T stage (T1: 19%, T-2: 26%, T3T4: 40%; p=0.013), pN status (pN(0): 12% pN(1-3): 26% pN(>3): 44%; p<0.0001) and presence of locoregional recurrence (62% versus 18% p < 0.0001). In a multivariate analysis, axillary nodal involvement and high SBR remain prognostic factors.Conclusion: Earlier diagnosis and wide use of adjuvant treatments (RT/HT/CT) widely decreased LR and increased survival rates in MBC, reaching female ones. Prognostic factors were also very similar to female ones. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer	Male breast cancer (MaIeBC) is a rare disease, accounting for <1% of all male tumors. During the last few years, there has been an increase in the incidence of this disease, along with the increase in female breast cancer (FBC). Little is known about the etiology of MaleBC: hormonal, environmental and genetic factors have been reported to be involved in its pathogenesis. Major risk factors include clinical disorders carrying hormonal imbalances, radiation exposure and, in particular, a positive family history (FH) for BC, the latter suggestive of genetic susceptibility. Rare mutations in high-penetrance genes (BRCA1 and BRCA2) confer a high risk of BC development; low-penetrance gene mutations (i.e. CHEK-2) are more common but involve a lower risk increase.About 90% of all male breast tumors have proved to be invasive ductal carcinomas, expressing high levels of hormone receptors with evident therapeutic returns.The most common clinical sign of BC onset in men is a painless palpable retroareolar lump, which should be evaluated by means of mammography, ultrasonography and core biopsy or fine needle aspiration (FNA).To date, there are no published data from prospective randomized trials supporting a specific therapeutic approach in MaleBC. Tumor size together with the number of axillary nodes involved are the main prognostic factors and should guide the treatment choice. Locoregional approaches include surgery and radiotherapy (RT), depending upon the initial clinical presentation. When systemic treatment (adjuvant, neoadjuvant and metastatic) is delivered, the choice between hormonal and or chemotherapy (CT) should depend upon the clinical and biological features, according to the FBC management guidelines. However great caution is required because of high rates of age-related comorbidities. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	MALE BREAST CANCER: A 20-YEAR SINGLE INSTITUTION EXPERIENCE		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Histopathology of the Male Breast: Eleven Years Experience of the Vanderbilt Breast Consultation Service		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Molecular Classification of Male Breast Cancer Using Immunohistochemistry		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Histopathology of the Male Breast: Eleven Years Experience of the Vanderbilt Breast Consultation Service		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: A survey at the Helsinki University Central Hospital during 1981-2006	Background. The purpose was to analyze the behavior of male breast cancer. Methods. Fifty-eight male breast cancer patients were treated at the HUGH during 1981-2006. Data on risk factors, tumor characteristics, clinical presentation, treatment and survival were obtained by chart review. Results. Presentation occurred at a median age of 63 years, most often due to a self-detected lump. The median size of the primary tumor was 1.8 cm and 14% were T4 tumors. Forty-seven percent had lymph node metastases and 4% distant metastases at diagnosis. Ductal carcinoma was the most common tumor type. All tumors with known receptor status were positive for estrogen receptor (ER) and 79% for progesterone receptor (PgR). Her-2 overexpression was found in 2/19 patients (11%). A family history of breast cancer, obesity, high alcohol intake and liver cirrhosis were the most often seen risk factors. Nineteen percent had one or two other malignancies, the most common second malignancy being prostate cancer in 7%. Ninety-seven percent were operated by mastectomy and 90% by axillary evacuation while sentinel node biopsy alone was done only in 7%. Sixty percent of the patients received radiotherapy, 64% adjuvant hormonal treatment, 20% adjuvant chemotherapy, and 2% adjuvant trastuzumab. Fourteen patients (25%) experienced a relapse of which 60% were distant, bone being the most common site. During follow-up 21 patients (37%) died, of whom nine of breast cancer and 12 due to other causes. The 5-year overall survival (OS) was 75%. Conclusions. Male breast cancer behaves and is today treated in many respects like postmenopausal breast cancer. However, due to rudimentary breast tissue the symptoms, diagnosis and especially a higher amount of T4 tumors differ from that of females. Also the risk factor profile and histologic subgroups seem different. The 5-year OS of 75% is clearly higher than 44% reported at our institution in 1982.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gene copy number variation in male breast cancer by aCGH	Background: Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease and little is known about its etiopathogenesis. Array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) provides a method to quantitatively measure the changes of DNA copy number and to map them directly onto the complete linear genome sequences. The aim of this study was to investigate DNA imbalances by aCGH and compare them with a female breast cancer dataset.Methods: We used Agilent Human Genome CGH Microarray Kit 44B and 44K to compare genomic alterations in 25 male breast cancer tissues studied at NCC of Bari and 16 female breast cancer deposited with the Gene Expression Omnibus (GSE12659). Data analysis was performed with Nexus Copy Number 5.0 software.Results: All the 25 male and 16 female breast cancer samples displayed some chromosomal instability (110.93 alterations per patient in female, 69 in male). However, male samples presented a lower frequency of genetic alterations both in terms of loss and gains.Conclusion: aCGH is an effective tool for analysis of cytogenetic aberrations in MBC, which involves different biological processes than female. Male most significant altered regions contained genes involved in cell communication, cell division and immunological response, while female cell-cell junction maintenance, regulation of transcription and neuron development.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer Epidemiology		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Etiologic factors for male breast cancer in the US Veterans Affairs medical care system database	The etiology of male breast cancer is largely unknown, reflecting its relative rarity. Although a number of previous studies have suggested relationships with a variety of medical conditions, the results have largely derived from case-control studies and may reflect recall biases. Within the large U.S. Veterans Affairs computerized medical care system database, we had the opportunity to access 26 million hospital discharge records over the period 1969-1996 and to relate various documented medical conditions to the risk of subsequent male breast cancer. This allowed us to calculate relative risks (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for male breast cancer associated with conditions occurring one or more years after initial hospitalization, adjusted for age, race, calendar year, duration of follow-up, and number of hospital visits. Among 4,501,578 men aged 18-100 years, a total of 642 cases of primary male breast cancer were identified (523 among whites, 119 among blacks). Medical conditions that were significantly related to risk were diabetes (RR 1.30, 95% CI 1.05-1.60), obesity (1.98, 1.55-2.54), orchitis/epididymitis (1.84, 1.10-3.08), Klinefelter syndrome (29.64, 12.26-71.68), and gynecomastia (5.86, 3.74-9.17). Additionally, among black patients, cholelithiasis emerged as a significant risk predictor (3.45, 1.59-7.47). Diseases that have previously been related to male breast cancer risk that were not supported by our study results included thyroid diseases, smoking-related conditions, liver cirrhosis, prostatic hyperplasia, and fractures. After adjustment for obesity, the association with diabetes disappeared, but that with gynecomastia persisted. In multivariate models that simultaneously considered all important medical predictors of risk, significant risks were seen for Klinefelter syndrome (16.83, 6.81-41.62), gynecomastia (5.08, 3.21-8.03), obesity (1.91, 1.50-2.44), and orchitis/epididymitis (1.80, 1.08-3.01). These results support previous speculations that male breast cancer is influenced not only by tissue at risk, but also by hormonal and inflammatory factors.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer-25 Years Single Institution Experience		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer-25 Years Single Institution Experience		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A Pilot Study of Male Breast Cancer in the Veterans Affairs Healthcare System	Background: We report our findings on a hospital-based retrospective pilot cohort with case-controls study, which we carried out to examine genetic, environmental, and occupational risk factors in men with breast cancer. Methods: 86 men with breast cancer were diagnosed in eight VA medical centers that agreed to collaborate on this project. A case-control analysis was conducted on a subset of the male breast cancer cases (n = 44) and age- and ethnicity-matched controls (n = 77). We compared host characteristics, comorbidities, and medications intake between cases and controls by using Chi-square analysis and Fisher's exact test. Results: The descriptive analysis showed that the majority of veterans with male breast cancer were non-Hispanic white (60%), older than 65 years at diagnosis (56%), and more likely estrogen receptor positive (45%). World War II veterans represented the largest group (22%), followed by the Vietnam era veterans (10%). Thirty-three percent reported a positive family history of cancer, while 18% had another primary cancer diagnosis. Prior alcohol (43%) and tobacco use (56%) was substantial among these patients. Twenty percent of patients were overweight or obese and 55% had comorbid diseases with heart disease being the most prevalent, followed by diabetes mellitus. The case-control analysis yielded a significantly greater proportion of cases with gynecomastia (p < 0.0001), a positive family history of cancer (p = 0.0028), history of antibiotic use (p = 0.0112), and history of tobacco use (p = 0.0143) compared to controls. Conclusion: The findings of this hospital-based pilot study indicate case-control differences in gynecomastia and family history of cancer. The pilot study lacked sufficient power to determine a true association between the variables of interest and warrants a large-scale collaborative study between the VA medical centers.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Conditions of the male breast: Gynaecomastia and male breast cancer	Breast disease most commonly affects females; however, a small percentage of men are also affected. Understandably given its low incidence, awareness of male breast disease is low, particularly among the general population. We searched the Medline database from 1950 onwards using the search terms male, breast, neoplasms and gynaecomastia, and reviewed the conditions associated with male breast disease, examining some of the risk factors and discussing how these conditions are diagnosed and treated, and finally putting forward some suggestions for their future management.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of Molecular Subtypes in Male Breast Cancer.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A Population Based Patterns of Care Study for Male Breast Cancer in Ontario.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Comparative Biomarker Analysis in 523 Matched Male and Female Breast Cancers.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Stage at Diagnosis and Management of Breast Cancer in Men and Women - A Population-Based Study (Sweden).		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Sleep Disorders in Patients with Breast Cancer Based on Polysomnographic Data.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Are males with early breast cancer treated differently from females with early breast cancer in Australia and New Zealand?	Breast cancer in males is much rare than in females so in practice, male breast cancer treatment is likely to follow the guidelines developed for female breast cancer patients. The objective of this study is to compare the characteristics and treatment pattern of male breast cancer patients with comparable Subgroups of female breast cancer patients using data submitted to the National Breast Cancer Audit.This is a retrospective analysis of 151 male breast cancers diagnosed and treated between 2000 and 2008. Most of the male early breast cancer cases in this group were symptomatic ones in men aged > 50 years with one invasive turnout. There was a similar proportion of lymph node positive cancer among males and females, although male breast cancer was more likely to be unifocal (P = 0.007) and oestrogen receptor positive (P = 0.001). Male breast cancer patients almost always underwent mastectomy and a significant proportion of them (11%) received no surgical treatment. There were no differences in axillary surgery although males were more likely to undergo a level 2 axillary surgery and less likely to have sentinel node biopsy. Male patients were significantly less likely to undergo radiotherapy, chemotherapy or hormonal therapy for oestrogen receptor positive tumours.Conclusion: While the female oriented treatment guidelines are available, male patients with early breast cancer received different surgical and adjuvant treatment from comparable females. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Most cancer in firefighters is due to radio-frequency radiation exposure not inhaled carcinogens	Recent reviews and reports of cancer incidence and mortality in firefighters conclude that they are at an increased risk of a number of cancers. These include leukemia, multiple myeloma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, male breast cancer, malignant melanoma, and cancers of the brain, stomach, colon, rectum, prostate, urinary bladder, testes, and thyroid. Firefighters are exposed to a long list of recognized or probable carcinogens in combustion products and the presumed route of exposure to these carcinogens is by inhalation. Curiously, respiratory system cancers and diseases are usually not increased in firefighters as they are in workers exposed to known inhaled carcinogens. The list of cancers with increased risk in firefighters strongly overlaps the list of cancers at increased risk in workers exposed to electromagnetic fields (EMF) and radiofrequency radiation (RFR). Firefighters have increased exposure to RFR in the course of their work, from the mobile two-way radio communications devices which they routinely use while fighting fires, and at times from firehouse and fire vehicle radio transmitters. I suggest that some of the increased cancer risk in firefighters is caused by RFR exposure, and is therefore preventable. The precautionary principle should be applied to reduce the risk of cancer in firefighters, and workman's compensation rules will necessarily need to be modified. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Demographic clinical and pathologic features of breast cancer in males		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Targeted therapy in unusual cancers with special reference to cardiac myxoma and male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Tripoli, Libya	Objectives: To study the epidemiology, characteristics, and survival of male breast cancer patients.Methods: This non-randomized retrospective study includes male patients with breast cancer confirmed by biopsy. A total of 1568 breast cancer patients were registered in the Oncology Department, Tripoli Medical Center, Tripoli, Libya between January 1990 to June 2008. Twenty-two patients were male (1.4%).Results: The mean age of male breast cancer patients was 61 years. They tend to have advanced local disease, as 65% of them were tumor (T)3 and T4, and 93.3% have positive lymph nodes. The preferred surgical treatment was mastectomy and axillary clearance in 65%, and 85% had invasive duct carcinoma. Regarding hormone receptor status, 70% were estrogen and progesterone positive. A total of 71% received chemotherapy as anthracycline based. During follow up, the overall recurrence rate was 47%. The bone was the most common site of relapse (37.5%). Overall survival rate was 82.4% at first, 76.5% at second, and 57% at fifth year. Two patients were brothers, and one of them developed multiple myeloma during follow up.Conclusion: In comparison to female patients with breast cancer, male patients are older, and have more advanced and more hormone positive disease.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Invasive apocrine carcinoma of the breast: a clinico-pathological and immunohistochemical study of nine cases		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Pathological Vertebral Compression Fracture of C3 Due to a Breast Cancer Metastasis in a Male Patient	Study Design. A case of vertebral body fracture due to metastatic breast cancer in a male patient and a review of the literature are presented.Objective. To draw attention to the possible adverse skeletal events in breast cancer patients, and the need of a watchful staff within the multidisciplinary team in charge.Summary of Background Data. Breast cancer is a rare condition in men, the male/female ratio is 1 of 100 approximately; in both sexes bone metastases are the most common. The pathologic fracture by spinal metastases can cause intense pain with difficult management. Vertebroplasty has been used successfully to treat pain and improve functional status in patients with vertebral compression fractures due to metastases.Methods. A 43-year-old male patient was diagnosed of having breast epithelial carcinoma after histologic analysis of a femur fracture. Following reconstruction, the patient started rehabilitative treatment. In a control visit, he referred sudden cervical pain which was initially treated with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and rest. The patient was seen in a later visit and complained about poor response to analgesia. For this reason, a radiologic study was carried out, showing signs of fracture of the third cervical vertebral body (C3), and was completed with magnetic resonance imaging where the diagnosis of osteolytic metastasis was confirmed.Results. After consulting the interventionist radiology team, vertebroplasty was carried out aiming to diminishing the pain. There were no postoperative complications and the patient's recovery from cervicalgia permitted the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs suspension. Two weeks after the vertebroplasty, the patient resumed his rehabilitative treatment without presenting cervical pain or mobility limitation.Conclusion. Spinal metastases treatment may include combinations of radiotherapy, vertebroplasty, and bisphosphonates, which have proved analgesic effect and a decrease of bone complications; however, out of these options, only vertebroplasty allows rapid stabilization and analgesia.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Fine Needle Aspiration of Male Breast Lesions	ObjectiveTo describe a biinstitutional experience with fine needle aspiration (FNA) of breast lesions occurring in men, over a period of over 10 years and to assess the role of FNA in detecting male breast cancer.Study DesignComputer Patient records were searched from January 1990 to September 2007. Male patients who had a diagnosis of carcinoma on breast biopsy or resection were identified, and detailed chart review was done to assess demographics and correlate biopsy and FNA results.ResultsA total of 346,792 patients' charts were searched, and 2.17 male patients were found to have had abreast mass and subsequent FNA. Combined in both institutions, FNA results were positive for carcinoma in 12 (5.5%) cases, negative in 181 (83.4%) cases, suspicions in 5 (2.3%) cases, indeterminate inconclusive in 3 (1.4%) cases and unsatisfactory in 16 (7.4%) cases. Matching biopsies to confirm FNA results were available in 26 (12%) of the 217 cases. The calculated sensitivity and specificity for the malignant cases reached 100%. When suspicions cases were calculated for diagnostic accuracy, the sensitivity was 67% and the specificity 100%.ConclusionThis biinstitutional study demonstrates that FNA is a reliable but underutilized procedure for the management of male breast lesions. (Acta Cytol 2009;53:369-374)	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathological study of male breast carcinoma: 24 years of experience	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Because breast cancer in men is rare, few patients are available for prospective studies. To learn more about its epidemiology, risk factors, clinical features, genetics and pathology in our country, we conducted a retrospective study of all cases seen in recent decades at our institution.PATIENTS AND METHODS: We identified each case of male breast cancer in the database at the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Srinagar, Kashmir, India, between the years 1983 to 2007.RESULTS: We identified only 32 cases of male breast cancer over the 24-year period. Male breast cancer accounted for 32 (2.8%) of 1141 resected breast specimens, which included all breast lesions and 32 (4.1%) of 780 breast cancer cases. Of the 32 cases, 20 (62.5%) had various associated risk factors. Invasive ductal carcinoma was seen in 30 cases (93.7%). Of 20 cases that underwent molecular studies, 16 (80%) patients had estrogen receptor positivity whereas 14 (70%) had progesterone receptor positivity. Six cases (30%) overexpressed HER2 and p53. The BRCA2 mutation was observed in 4 cases (40%) while no patient presented with the BRCA1 mutation.CONCLUSION: An incidence of 4.1% for male breast cancer indicates that this disease is not as uncommon as presumed in this part of the world. Breast cancer in men seems more frequently to be hormone receptor positive and the BRCA2 mutation confers a significant risk to men.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	CHEK2 1100delC and male breast cancer in the Netherlands	Mutations in the breast cancer susceptibility genes BRCA1, BRCA2, and CHEK2 are known risk factors for female breast cancer. Mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 also are associated with male breast cancer (MBC). Similarly, it had been suggested in the original CHEK2 identification report that the CHEK2 1100delC mutation confers an increased risk for MBC. Here, we have evaluated the risk of CHEK2 1100delC for MBC by genotyping CHEK2 1100delC in 23 familial and 71 unselected Dutch MBC cases. None of the 23 familial MBC cases carried the CHEK2 1100delC mutation. In contrast, CHEK2 1100delC was present in 3 of the 71 (4.2%) unselected MBC cases, which was significantly more prevalent than the 1.1% Dutch population frequency assessed in 1,692 individuals (P = 0.05, OR = 4.1, 95% CI 1.2-14.3). Our data suggest that, in the Netherlands, CHEK2 1100delC is associated with an increased risk for MBC.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Cancer Presenting as an Axillary Mass: A Case Report and Literature Review	The presentation of breast cancer in a male as a solitary axillary mass is very unusual. In general, though the disease presents later in men than in women, the presentation is essentially the same in either gender group. Late and/or atypical presentation, however, delays diagnosis and treatment and carries a much worse prognosis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	MALE BREAST CANCER IN THE VETERAN'S ADMINISTRATION HOSPITALIZATION DATABASE.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Men at Increased Risk of Developing Breast Cancer: Language Preferences for Naming a Cancer-Related Mutation	Purpose: Patients attending familial cancer clinics may find the term "mutation'' offensive and potentially stigmatizing, yet there is little consensus in the literature as to the most appropriate alternative terms to describe a cancer-related mutation to individuals considering genetic testing for cancer risk. This study aimed to describe a cancer-related mutation in a rare group of familial cancer clinic patients: men at increased risk of carrying a breast cancer-related mutation. Methods: Twenty-seven men completed a self-report questionnaire that assessed their preferences for language to describe a cancer-related mutation. Results: Overall, men were most likely to spontaneously suggest the term "faulty gene'' to describe a cancer-related mutation when asked an open-ended question about their language preferences. When asked to rate the term "faulty gene'' in comparison to the terms "altered gene,'' "mutation,'' "nonworking gene,'' "malfunctioning gene,'' and "gene change,'' the term "faulty gene'' received the highest mean preference rating in this sample of men at increased risk of developing breast cancer. Conclusion: This area of investigation remains controversial and would benefit from more formal and larger-scale investigations of the language preferences of individuals at increased risk of developing cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The rising incidence of male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: experience from a Malaysian tertiary centre	Introduction: Breast cancer is a rare condition among men with a reported incidence of about one percent. Nevertheless, it is thought to behave similarly in both genders. Due to its rarity, male breast cancer is not widely reported, especially in the Asian population.Methods: In a five-year review of our breast cancer surgery series, about 1.6 percent involved male patients. There was a substantial delay in presentation among those men, whose mean age at presentation was 64 years.Results: The majority of patients presented with a painless lump. Histologically, all tumours were ductal in origin and all patients had lower than stage III malignancies. The majority of patients underwent mastectomy and axillary lymph node dissection. All male patients were commenced on adjuvant tamoxifen. The longest survival was 54 months with all patients remaining tumour-free.Conclusion: Malaysian men are at risk of breast cancer and seem to have a better prognosis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: a review	Male breast cancer (MBC) is considered as a rare disease comprising about 1% of all breast cancers. As compared to women breast cancer, MBC has some similarities and also some particularities related to age, comorbidities, breast volume, diagnostic delay, prognosis and survival. Modified radical mastectomy (MRM) with axillary dissection is the gold standard. Sentinel lymph node dissection is a promising option for early stages. Adjuvant radiation is proposed because of the high frequency of node involvement and central tumor location. In hormone receptor positive tumors tamoxifen remains the gold standard endocrine therapy because of the lack of data on aromatase inhibitors. Adjuvant chemotherapy can be proposed to high-risk patients while trastuzumab should be an option in breast cancer that overexpresses HER2. In the setting of considerable evolution in the management of women breast cancer, this review aimed to point out on the similarities and particularities of MBC and the future challenges to improve MBC outcome.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Chinese population - a ten year review.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	BRCA mutation in Chinese population: results from the Hong Kong hereditary and high risk breast cancer programme (HRBCP) and the Hong Kong hereditary and high risk breast cancer family registry		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	HER-2 and topoisomerase IIa gene alterations in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Matched-pair analysis of female and male breast cancer: a comprehensive cohort study		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: follow-up recommendations after surgery		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer outcomes: validation and modification of a guideline		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Endocrine adjuvant therapy in male breast cancer (MBC): tamoxifen (TAM), aromatase inhibitors (AI) or both?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A Case-Control Study to Investigate the Association Between Finasteride and Male Breast Cancer Using the GPRD		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Biomarkers, Critical Disease Pathways, Drug Targets, and Alternative Medicine in Male Breast Cancer	While breast cancer (BC) is commonest malignancy among female with highest death rate, male breast cancer (MBC) is very rare but exhibits highest cancer specific death in men and the incidences of MBCs are rising rapidly. Due to rarity of the disease, no detail information about biomarkers and drug targets available and because of late diagnosis and rarely understood the pathogenesis at molecular level, the treatment of MBC is also not yet standardized. Though the MBC biology, pathogenesis, and the clinical outcomes resembles with female breast cancer (FBC), they are quite unique in many aspects. Therefore, the uses of FBC specific drugs for treatment of MBC are not only dissatisfactory but also increases mortality rate due to severe side effects of these conventional drugs. To avoid side effects of usual therapeutic drugs, new drugs and their targets should be identified and evaluated, where the dietary phytochemicals may be the alternative of currently used drugs. Similarly, an integrated strategy and pharmacogenomics approach is now essential to fight against this malady. This article will deal with different aspects of MBC including biomarkers, pathways, drug targets, and common dietary phytochemicals as effective alternatives of conventional chemotherapeutic drugs for targeted therapy without any side effect.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathological Characteristics of Male Breast Cancer	Purpose: To investigate clinicopathological characteristics and outcomes of male breast cancer (MBC). Patients and Methods: We retrospectively analyzed the data of 20 MBC patients in comparison with female ductal carcinoma treated at Yonsei University Severance Hospital from July 1985 to May 2007. Clinicopathological features, treatment patterns, and survival were investigated. Results: MBC consists of 0.38% of all breast cancers. The median age was 56 years. The median symptom duration was 10 months. The median tumor size was 1.7cm, 27.8% showed node metastasis, and 71.4% were estrogen receptor positive. All 20 cancers were arisen from ductal cells. No lobular carcinoma was found. The incidence of stages 0, 1, 11, and III in patients were 2, 10, 4, and 3, respectively. All patients underwent mastectomy. One with invasive cancer did not receive axillary node dissection and stage was not exactly evaluated. Adjuvant treatments were determined by pathologic parameters and stage. Clinicopathological parameters and survival rates of MBC were comparable to those of female ductal carcinoma. Conclusion: The onset age of MBC was 10 years older and symptom duration was longer than in female patients. No difference in outcomes between MBC and female ductal carcinoma suggests that the biology of MBC is not different from that of females. Therefore, education, an appropriate system for early detection, and adequate treatment are necessary for improving outcomes.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prospective Evaluation of Risk Factors for Male Breast Cancer	Most risk factors for male breast cancer have been derived from retrospective studies that may reflect selective recall. In the prospective National Institutes of Health AARP Diet and Health Study, we studied 324 920 men, among whom 121 developed breast cancer. Men who reported a first-degree relative with breast cancer had an increased risk of breast cancer (relative risk [RR] = 1.92, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.19 to 3.09). Among the medical conditions examined, a new finding emerged regarding increased male breast cancer risk associated with a history of a bone fracture (RR = 2.20, 95% CI = 1.24 to 3.91). Obesity was positively related to risk (RR = 1.79, 95% CI = 1.10 to 2.91, for body mass indices of = 30 vs <25 kg/m(2)) and physical activity inversely related, even after adjustment for body mass index. Smokers were at somewhat elevated risk, although trends with smoking characteristics were inconsistent. Alcohol consumption was not related to risk. The identified risk factors show some commonalities with female breast cancer and indicate the importance of hormonal mechanisms. Differences in risk factors may reflect unique mechanisms associated with androgens and their ratio to bioavailable estrogens.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Understanding and management of male breast cancer: a critical review	Breast cancer is a rare disease in men representing nearly 1% of the total breast cancer cases worldwide. While treatments developed for women with breast cancer are often applied to treat men with breast cancer, however, lack of awareness of this disease leads to its detection at a later stage in men. This review discusses male breast cancer and draws comparisons with female breast cancer and discusses current treatments available to treat this disease. It is believed that this review shall provide concise and relevant information increasing the awareness of issues revolving around male breast cancer (MBC).	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Cancer of the breast: 5-year survival in a tertiary hospital in Uganda	The objective was to investigate survival of breast cancer patients at Mulago Hospital. A retrospective study of the medical records of 297 breast cancer patients referred to the combined breast clinic housed in the radiotherapy department between 1996 and 2000 was done. The female/male ratio was 24 : 1. The age range was 22 - 85 years, with a median of 45 years and peak age group of 30 - 39 years. Twenty-three percent had early disease ( stages 0 - IIb) and 26% had metastatic disease. Poorly differentiated was the most common pathological grade (58%) followed by moderately differentiated (33%) and well-differentiated (9%) tumours. The commonest pathological type encountered was 'not otherwise specified' (76%). Of all patients, 75% had surgery, 76% had radiotherapy, 60% had hormonotherapy and 29% had chemotherapy. Thirty-six (12%) patients received all the four treatment modalities. The 5-year survival probabilities (Kaplan-Meier) for early disease were 74 and 39% for advanced disease (P=0.001). The overall 5-year survival was 56%, which is lower than the rates in the South African blacks (64%) and North American whites (82-88%).	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	BRCA1/BRCA2 rearrangements and CHEK2 common mutations are infrequent in Italian male breast cancer cases	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare and poorly known disease. Germ-line mutations of BRCA2 and, to lesser extent, BRCA1 genes are the highest risk factors associated with MBC. Interestingly, BRCA2 germ-line rearrangements have been described in high-risk breast/ovarian cancer families which included at least one MBC case. Germ-line mutations of CHEK2 gene have been also implicated in inherited MBC predisposition. The CHEK2 1100delC mutation has been shown to increase the risk of breast cancer in men lacking BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations. Intriguingly, two other CHEK2 mutations (IVS2+1G > A and I157T) and a CHEK2 large genomic deletion (del9-10) have been associated with an elevated risk for prostate cancer. Here, we investigated the contribution of BRCA1, BRCA2 and CHEK2 alterations to MBC predisposition in Italy by analysing a large series of MBC cases, unselected for breast cancer family history and all negative for BRCA1/BRCA2 germ-line mutations. A total of 102 unrelated Italian MBC cases were screened for deletions/duplications of BRCA1, BRCA2 and CHEK2 by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. No BRCA1, BRCA2 and CHEK2 genomic rearrangements, including the CHEK2 del9-10, were found in the series analysed. Furthermore, none of the MBC cases and 263 male population controls, also included in this study, carried the CHEK2 1100delC, IVS2+1G > A and I157T common mutations. Overall, our data suggest that screening of BRCA1/2 rearrangements is not advantageous in MBC cases not belonging to high-risk breast cancer families and that common CHEK2 mutations play an irrelevant role in MBC predisposition in Italy.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	DNA repair and metabolic gene polymorphisms and male breast cancer risk		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	"How to treat male breast cancer" (vol 16S2, pg S147, 2007)		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	BRCA2 gene mutations in Slovenian male breast cancer patients	Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease, comprising less than 1% of breast cancer patients in Slovenia. Some inherited cases are due to the mutations of BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes. There is no information available about the frequency of BRCA gene mutations in Slovenian MBC population. The purpose of this study was to characterize BRCA germline mutations in Slovenian MBC patients. Forty-one patients who were diagnosed with breast cancer at the Institute of Oncology Ljubljana between 1970 and 2006 were proposed to take part in this study. Of them, 27 agreed to follow a genetic counseling session and 25 patients agreed to provide a blood sample for genetic testing. The BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes from the MBC patients were screened for four highly recurrent mutations in the Slovenian population. When an additional breast cancer case or an ovarian cancer was present in the family, a more extended analysis was performed. No BRCA1 mutations were found. A BRCA2 gene mutation was identified in four MBC patients. Three of them carried the Slovenian founder mutation IVS16-2A>G. All four mutations were confined to the patients with a family history of breast cancer. Among the MBC patients with a family history of breast cancer in the first-or second-degree relatives, the frequency of BRCA2 gene mutation was 50%. The median age of the patients with a BRCA2 gene mutation was 60 years, not significantly different from those without a mutation. The BRCA2 mutations were diagnosed in 16% of our MBC patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer - a ten year overview		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Chinese population - a 10 year review		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gynaecomastia and breast cancer in men		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	How to treat male breast cancer	The prevalence for breast cancer in males in Europe is estimated to be 1 or less per 100 000. Male breast cancer has a peak incidence at the age of 71 years.There are no randomized data giving information on the optimal therapy for male breast cancer patients, thereby limiting firmer conclusions.The preferred primary surgical therapy is modified radical/simple mastectomy, but breast-conserving surgery has also been used in males. Post-operative radiotherapy should be used on a more routine basis; as males have shorter breast-anatomical distances and males are diagnosed at a later stage compared with females. The so far preferred adjuvant therapy modality has been tamoxifen for patients with endocrine responsive disease. The use of aromatase inhibitors in males is more controversial, since they may not deplete the estradiol levels sufficiently. Different chemotherapy regimens have been used in the adjuvant and metastatic setting. The use of adjuvant therapy has in institutional and review comparisons been demonstrated to result in an improved outcome. (C) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer (MBC): impact of early diagnosis and adjuvant treatments. Analysis of 983 cases		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Survivin and COX-2 expression in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A carrier of both MEN1 and BRCA2 mutations: case report a-lid review of the literature	High-penetrance autosomal dominant cancer susceptibility genes such as BRCA2 and MEN1 result in specific patterns of cancers in individuals who inherit germline mutations. Their incidence in the population is relatively low, however, and it is highly unusual to identify individuals with two or more inherited cancer gene mutations. We describe a family with multiple cases of MEN1-associated cancers as well as pancreatic adenocarcinoma, ovarian cancer, and male breast cancer, in which we identified germline mutations in both MEN1 and BRCA2. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a patient with both MEN1 and BRCA2 mutations and with a personal history of hyperparathyroidism and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Potential benefit of maintenance trastuzumab and anastrozole therapy in male advanced breast cancer	Less than 1% of breast cancers occur in mates, and the optimal hormonal therapy in this setting is unknown. Tamoxifen is effective in this entity, but unfortunately there is little information on aromatase inhibitors (AI) or fulvestrant. It has been suggested that the association of Al and GnRh analogues and Al could block the two routes of oestrogen production in mates, and therefore this approach could increase efficacy. However, it could also enhance the rate of adverse events (hot flashes, sexual impotence, etc.). In this report we report 11 months of progression-free survival, without any adverse events, in a patient who received trastuzumab and anastrozole therapy. We conclude that this combination is a reasonable option in men with ER+ and Her2+ advanced breast cancer. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	How to treat male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Application of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carrier prediction models in breast and/or ovarian cancer families of French Canadian descent	The BRCAPRO, Couch, Myriad I and II, Ontario Family History Assessment Tool (FHAT), and Manchester models have been used to predict BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation carrier status of women at high risk for developing the heritable form of breast and ovarian cancers. We have evaluated these models for their accuracy in classifying 224 French Canadian families with at least three cases of breast cancer (diagnosed before the age of 65 years), ovarian cancer, or male breast cancer where mutation status was known for an index affected case used to assess the model. This series includes 44 BRCA1 and 52 BRCA2 mutation-positive families. Using receiver operator characteristics analyses, the C-statistics were found to be 0.81, 0.80, 0.79, and 0.74 for the BRCAPRO, FHAT, Manchester, and Myriad II models, respectively, when incorporating both BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carrier predictions. For the BRCAPRO model, 75% scored greater than a 0.43 probability in the mutation-positive group and 75% scored less than 0.50 in the mutation-negative group. Only 38 of 128 (30%) mutation-negative group had a probability greater than 0.43 with the BRCAPRO model. While all models were highly predictive of carrier status, the BRCAPRO model was the most accurate where a cut-off of 10% would have eliminated 60 of 128 (47%) mutation-negative families for genetic testing and only miss 10 of 96 (10%) mutation-positive families. A review of the cancer phenotypes with high BRCAPRO probabilities showed that significantly more metachronous bilateral breast cancer cases occurred in BRCA1/2 mutation carrier families in comparison to mutation-negative families, a feature which is not discriminated in the BRCAPRO model.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Primary male neuroendocrine nipple adenocarcinoma simulating Merkel Cell Carcinoma - A diagnostic pitfall		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer as a second primary in patients with prostate cancer - Estrogen treatment or association with family history of cancer?	Purpose: In a large population based study we reported an increased risk of male breast cancer after prostate cancer. In the current study we performed a comprehensive investigation of whether treatment for prostate cancer and/or family history is responsible for the excess risk.Materials and Methods: This study had 2 parts. 1) We performed a nested case-control study in 41 men who had previously been identified with first prostate cancer, followed by male breast cancer and in 81 matched controls with prostate cancer only. The medical records of these men were retrieved and clinical data such as stage, grade and treatment were extracted. 2) We also performed a family study including relatives of men with a diagnosis of prostate as well as breast cancer, irrespective of which was first. The 878 relatives were identified through parish offices and linked to the Swedish Cancer Registry to evaluate the occurrence of breast, prostate and other cancers and calculate if there were any excess risks for different cancers.Results: Cases with prostate plus breast cancer received estrogen treatment more often than controls with prostate cancer only (p = 0.03). The period of estrogen treatment was longer in the cases, although it was not statistically significant. Mean time from prostate cancer diagnosis to breast cancer diagnosis was 47.6 months. Cases and controls did not differ in grade or stage. In the family study an increased risk of prostate cancer was found in relatives (SIR 2.14, 95% CI 1.09 to 3.18). For other cancers no significantly increased risks were found. In 2 families pedigree analysis using the BRCAPRO program (http://www3.utsouthwestern.edu/cancergene/) revealed an estimated 100% and 49% probability in families 1 and 2, respectively, that the proband was a BRCA2 carrier.Conclusions: Our data suggest that most of the increased risk of breast cancer following prostate cancer can be explained by estrogen treatment. However, in a small number of men with prostate as well as breast cancer pedigree analysis suggests that BRCA2 mutation might be the underlying cause.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The severity, outcome and challenges of breast cancer in Nigeria	Breast cancer is a very common disease in Nigeria. It is often associated with a poor prognosis for a variety of reasons. This study was designed to investigate the challenges, severity, outcome and factors influencing the outcome of the management of breast cancer in a Nigerian Teaching Hospital with a view to finding ways to improve the current dismal outlook for patients with the disease. The clinical records of patients seen with breast cancer over an 8-year period (1996-2003) in the two units of the Teaching hospital were reviewed. The two units serve the urban, semi-urban and rural communities of some parts of southwestern Nigeria. Two hundred and twelve patients with breast cancer were seen over the 8-year period of the study. The mean age was 48 years (23-85 years). There were 211 female and one male. One hundred and three patients (48.7%) had either postprimary or tertiary education. A proportion of 66.7% were premenopausal, 79.2% had pregnancy early in life and were multi-parous. These also gave a history of prolonged breast-feeding of their children. The tumour was self-detected in 195 (92%). The mean duration of symptoms was 11.2 months (9 days-7 years). Pain in 100 patients (47%) was the most common symptom and the cancer was in the left breast in 113 (53.3%). Localized cancer was in the upper outer quadrant in 85 (40%), whereas the whole breast was involved in 55 patients (26%). Loco-regional features of advanced cancer were seen in 157 patients (74%). The tumour was fungating in 83 (39%) and there was clinical evidence of systemic metastasis in 28 patients (13%). One hundred and seventy-four (80.6%) patients had advanced disease (stages 3 and 4). Definitive surgery was possible in 185 patients (87.3%), neoadjuvant chemotherapy was required in 65 (30.6%), postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy in 178 (84%; drug combinations were CMF-cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, 5fluorouracil, CMFP-CMF plus prednisone, and CAF-cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, 5-fluorouracil), tamoxifen was administered in all the patients. Only 70 (33.2%) patients were known to have received radiotherapy among those referred to the Radiotherapy unit, with associated fair treatment compliance after surgery. Outpatient clinic attendance was also very poor, only 27 (12.7%) were still being seen in the clinic, 83 patients (39%) were known to be dead and 102 patients were lost to follow-up. The mean follow-up period was 8.4 months (1 week-6 years). In conclusion, breast cancer is very common in our area of practice in Nigeria; the majority of our patients were young and premenopausal women presenting in the advanced stages of cancer. Treatment compliance was very poor. The majority of the patients were dead or lost to follow-up within a year of diagnosis. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical expression in male breast cancer: Two case reports	Male breast cancer is rare, and the incidence is less than 1% of all breast malignancies in both men and women. It is possible that, because male patients are unaware of male breast cancer, there is a delay of diagnosis and, consequently, more advanced stages are commonly encountered in these patients. Some studies have engaged in molecular studies of male breast cancers because of the possibly different characteristics, prognosis, and treatment between male and female malignancies. However, a dearth of studies still exists, most likely because of the rarity of the disease and lack of a large patient base for study. Among the molecular markers of breast cancer, p53, Ki-67, HER-2/neu, and Bcl-2 are the most frequently studied. Here we present two rare cases and a review of the literature concerning the relationship between immunohistochemical markers and their impact in order to provide surgeons with more information about the disease and further techniques for treatment of these patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Hormonal therapy for male breast cancer: A different approach for a different disease	Male breast cancer (MBC) is on the rise in the United States [Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program (www.seer.cancer.gov) SEER Stat Database: Incidence-SEER 9 Regs Public-Use; November 2004 submission (1973-2002), National Cancer Institute, DCPPS, Surveillance Research Program, Cancer Statistics Branch, released April 2005, based on the November 2004 submission]; however mortality due to MBC has not changed unlike in its female counterpart [American Cancer Society: Cancer facts and figures 2005. Atlanta (GA): American Cancer Society; 2005]. The rarity of MBC has precluded major progress in the understanding and treatment of this disease. Treatment has often been extrapolated from female breast cancer (FBC) despite distinct clinicopathologic features between the two entities, especially with regards to the role of mate hormones and estrogens in this disease. Also, it is uncertain if hormone receptor positive tumors carry the same prognostic implication in MBC as in the female disease. Hormonal therapy has been the mainstay of treatment in MBC with tamoxifen the front-tine drug. The role of the newer generation aromatase inhibitors has not been well defined but they are being used in clinical practice for the treatment of MBC, based on accepted data for women with the disease. This commentary focuses on the major hormonal differences between mate and female breast cancer that would suggest the need to explore different treatment strategies if significant advances are to be made in the understanding and treatment of this distinct disease. (c) 2006 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer	Occurrence of male breast cancer, a rare disease, peaks at age 71 years. Familial cases usually have BRCA2 rather than BRCA1 mutations. Occupational risks include high temperature environments and exhaust fumes, but electromagnetic fields have not been implicated. Hyperoestrogenisation resulting from Klinefelter's, gonadal dysfunction, obesity, or excess alcohol, all increase risk as does exposure to radiation, whereas gynaecomastia does not. Presentation is usually a lump or nipple inversion, but is often late, with more than 40% of individuals having stage III or IV disease. Most tumours are ductal and 10% are ductal carcinoma in situ. Surgery is usually mastectomy with axillary clearance or sentinel node biopsy. Indications for radiotherapy, by stage, are similar to female breast cancer. Because 90% of tumours are oestrogen-receptor-positive, tamoxifen is standard adjuvant therapy, but some individuals could also benefit from chemotherapy. Hormonal therapy is the main treatment for metastatic disease, but chemotherapy can also provide palliation. National initiatives are increasingly needed to improve information and support for male breast cancer patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Racial disparities in male breast cancer survival.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Clinical and pathological correlations in male breast cancer (MBC): intratumoral aromatase expression (ITA) via tissue microarray (TMA).		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Psychosocial outcomes for survivors of male breast cancer.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The role of mammography in male patients with breast symptoms.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical analysis of male breast cancer using tissue microarrays.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Predisposition to cancer: BRCA1 and BRCA2 - An update.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Postoperative radiotherapy in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: our experience from 1990 to 2004		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Mortality in Florida professional firefighters, 1972 to 1999	Background Exposure to occupational hazards among firefighters may lead to increased mortality from cancer lung, or heart disease.Methods Age- and gender-adjusted mortality rates of 34,796 male and 2,017 female Florida professional firefighters between 1972 and 1999 were compared with the Florida general population.Results One thousand four hundred eleven male and 38 female firefighter deaths with known causes were identified. In male firefighters, mortality due to all causes and most nonmalignant diseases was significantly less than expected. There was no excess overall mortality from cancer but excesses existed for male breast cancer [standardized mortality ratio (SMR = 7.41; 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.99-18.96) and thyroid cancer (SMR = 4.82; 95% CI: 1.30-12.34)]. Mortality from bladder cancer was increased and approached statistical significance (SMR = 1.79; 95% CI: 0.98-3.00). Firefighters certified between 1972 and 1976 had excess mortality from bladder cancer (SMR = 1.95; 95% CI: 1.04-3.33). Female firefighters had similar morality patterns to Florida women except for atherosclerotic heart disease (SMR = 3.85; 95% CI: 1.66-7.58).Conclusions Excess mortality risk from bladder cancer may be related to occupational exposure during firefighting. The thyroid cancer and breast cancer risk in males, as well as the excess risk of cardiovascular disease mortality noted in females warrant further investigation. (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Epidemiology of male breast cancer	Breast cancer in men is a rare disease, accounting for apprx1% of all breast cancer cases. Although the epidemiologic literature regarding female breast cancer is extensive, relatively little is known about the etiology of male breast cancer (MBC). This review is intended to summarize the existing body of evidence on genetic and epidemiologic risk factors for breast cancer in men. Overall, the epidemiology of MBC presents similarities with the epidemiology of female breast cancer. Major genetic factors associated with an increased risk of breast cancer for men include BRCA2 mutations, which are believed to account for the majority of inherited breast cancer in men, Klinefelter syndrome, and a positive family history. Suspected genetic factors include AR gene mutations, CYP17 polymorphism, Cowden syndrome, and CHEK2. Epiderniologic risk factors for MBC include disorders relating to hormonal imbalances, such as obesity, testicular disorders (e.g., cryptorchidism, mumps orchitis, and orchiectomy), and radiation exposure. Suspected epidemiologic risk factors include prostate cancer, prostate cancer treatment, gynecomastia, occupational exposures (e.g., electromagnetic fields, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, and high temperatures), dietary factors (e.g., meat intake and fruit and vegetable consumption), and alcohol intake.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer - an andrological disease: risk factors and diagnosis	Gynaecomastia, the enlargement of the male breast, is considered as an andrological disease. To date, a review on male breast cancer (MBC) has not been published in an andrological journal. The papers underlying this review were published from authors of different institutions: Clinical Genetics, Dermatology, Gynaecology, Internal Medicine, Oncology, Pathology, Psychiatry, Radiology and Surgery. MBC accounts for approximately 1% of breast cancer patients. A total of 182 men died of breast cancer in 1999, in Germany. In the US, 1500 new cases per year occur. MBC accounts for <5% of surgically removed breast lumps. Diseases with increased oestrogen action increase the risk of MBC. Mutations of distinct genes are estimated to account for up to roughly 10% of MBC. BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations are responsible for approximately 80% of the families with hereditary breast cancer. The diagnosis of MBC is not possible without histological examination. Different diagnostic procedures such as clinical diagnosis, sonography, mammography, fine-needle biopsy and core needle facilitate the decision whether a biopsy is necessary.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A gene-environment interaction between occupation and BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations in male breast cancer?	The association of male breast cancer (MBC) with a positive breast cancer (BC) family history and with BRCA1/2 germ-line mutations points to a genetic component; a relationship with occupation has also been reported. Recently, we identified pathogenetic BRCA1/2 mutations in a population-based series of Italian MBC patients: here in, we investigated interactions between a carrier status for BRCA1/2 mutations and occupation using a case-case design and estimating case-only odds ratios (CORs). Truck-driving was the most frequent occupation (3/4 BRCA-related cases and 2/19 unrelated cases). An interaction between carrier status and working as a truck-driver emerged, when we classified MBC cases as "ever/never-held" this job title (COR 25.5; 95% Confidence Limits (CL): 1.1-1,412.5) or according to truck-driving as the "longest-held" work (COR 54.0; 95% CL: 1.62,997.5). The possible modifying effect on MBC risk in subjects carrying BRCA1/2 germ-line mutations of an occupation characterised by exposure to chemicals such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) that are capable of inducing DNA damage, may provide clues to the role of environmental exposures in modifying BC risk in mutation carriers in both genders. Copyright 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Frequent amplification and overexpression of CCND1 in male breast cancer	Genetic events underlying the pathogenesis of breast cancer have been studied extensively and several clinically significant markers have been identified. For example, amplification and overexpression of the ERBB2 oncogene is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer and ERBB2 serves as a target for antibody-based therapy. Current knowledge on the pathogenesis,of male breast cancer (MBC) is limited. The purpose of our study was to investigate the potential relevance of a series of genes known to be amplified in female breast cancer (FBC) in a the development and pathogenesis of MBC. To this end, we applied fluorescence in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry to the analysis of 128 breast tumors from males. Amplification of ERBB2, MYC, PPM1D and ZNF217 was detected rarely (1-2% of tumors) indicating a considerably lower amplification frequency than in FBC. CCND1 amplification was observed in 12% of cases, being in good concordance with findings from FBC. In addition, CCND1 overexpression was detected in 63% of tumors and was associated with ER positivity (p < 0.0001). Our results indicate distinct differences in the genetic basis of MBC and FBC and suggest that marked differences exist in the pathogenesis of these diseases. The lack of ERBB2 involvement was especially unexpected and implies that ERBB2-targeted therapies are unlikely to be beneficial in MBC. Furthermore, the high frequency of hormone receptor positivity and the association between ER positivity and CCND1 overexpression supports the notion that hormonal regulation is likely to be essential for the development of MBC. Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Alcohol drinking may increase risk of breast cancer in men: a European population-based case-control study	Objective: It has been estimated that alcohol drinking increases the risk of breast cancer in women by approximately 7% for each increment of 10 g alcohol per day. However, the few studies conducted on breast cancer among men have failed to detect an association with quantitative measures of alcohol drinking, even if the alcohol intake is generally higher in men than in women. On the other hand, increased risks of male breast cancer were inconsistently reported in alcoholics or patients with liver cirrhosis. We have investigated the role of alcohol drinking in male breast cancer using data collected in a population-based case-control study on seven rare cancers, conducted in Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, and Sweden. Methods: The cases were 74 histologically verified male breast cancer patients aged 35-70 years. The controls (n = 1432) selected from population registers, and frequency-matched to the cases by age group and geographic area. To check for consistency, a separate analysis was conducted using as controls the patients with a rare cancer other than the breast recruited simultaneously in the European study (n = 519 men). Results: Based on population controls, the risk of developing breast cancer in men increased by 16% (95% CI: 7-26%) per 10, g alcohol/day (p 0.001). An odds ratio of 5.89 (95% CI: 2.21-15.69) was observed for alcohol intake greater than 90 g per day, as compared with light consumers ( 15 g per day). Similar associations were observed when other rare cancers patients were used as controls. Conclusion: We found that the relative risk of breast cancer in men is comparable to that in women for alcohol intakes below 60 g per day. It continues to increase at high consumption levels not usually studied in women.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: A special therapeutic problem. Anything new? (Review).	Carcinoma of the male breast (MBC) is an uncommon phenomenon, accounting for <1% of all malignancies in man. It represents a biologically heterogeneous disorder, and its clinical course may vary from indolent and slowly progressive to rapidly metastatic disease. Most of our current knowledge regarding its biology, natural history, and treatment strategies has been extrapolated from its female counterpart. Information regarding prognostic relevance of new molecular markers is limited. At the European Institute of Oncology we performed a study showing data in which p21Waf1 and p27Kip1 proteins were evaluated in a series of male breast cancer patients. Our data suggest that the immunohistochemical evaluation of p21Waf1 and p27Kip1 expression in male breast carcinomas may be a further useful marker for selecting patients who express functional proteins that can be predictive for the most efficient endocrine response. Moreover, searching for more conservative treatment, we introduced in our clinical practice sentinel node biopsy, and if present, sentinel node biopsy of the internal mammary chain. The potential clinical implications of complete nodal staging are far-reaching, and give us a major new opportunity to stratify male patients with breast cancer for appropriate surgery as well as giving valuable prognostic information. Male breast cancer has biological differences compared with female breast cancer. It responds to hormonal manipulation and chemotherapy, but optimal treatment regimens in males are unknown. By analogy to the female breast cancer, post-mastectomy radiotherapy should be proposed in case of advanced T stage and/or lymph node positivity (considering the small volume of the male mammary gland, we suggest post-mastectomy irradiation in case of T >1 cm and/or presence of >1 metastatic axillary lymph node). Breast conserving surgery, performed in selected cases of male breast cancer, should be always followed by radiotherapy. Despite a wealth of small retrospective studies on MBC, its rarity means there is a lack of prospective randomized controlled treatment trials, which needs to be addressed if significant advances are to be made in the treatment of this unusual challenging disease.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer during finasteride therapy.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Cytokeratin profiles in male breast cancer.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Sentinel node biopsy in male breast cancer.	Objective Male breast cancer is a rare disease and axillary status is the most important prognostic indicator. Lymphoscintigraphy associated with gamma-probe guided surgery has been proved to reliably detect sentinel nodes in female patients with breast cancer. This study evaluates the feasibility of the surgical identification of sentinel node by using lymphoscintigraphy and a gamma-detecting probe in male patients, in order to select subjects who would be suitable for complete axillary lymphadenectomy. Methods Colloid human albumin labelled with 99Tc was administered to 18 male patients with breast cancer and clinically negative axillary lymph nodes. Lymphoscintigraphy was performed the day before surgery. An intraoperative gamma-detecting probe was used to identify sentinel nodes during surgery. Results Lymphoscintigraphy and biopsy of the sentinel node were successful in all cases. A total of 20 sentinel nodes were removed. Pathological examinations showed 11 infiltrating ductal carcinomas, two intraductal carcinomas and five intracystic papillary carcinomas. Six patients (33%) had positive sentinel node (micrometastases were found in three patients). These patients underwent axillary dissection; in five of them (83%) the sentinel node was the only positive node. Twelve patients (67%) showed negative sentinel nodes; in all of them no further surgical treatments were planned. Conclusions As in women, lymphoscintigraphy and sentinel node biopsy under the guidance of a gamma-detecting probe proved to be an easy method for the detection of sentinel nodes in male breast carcinoma. In male patients with early stage cancer, sentinel node biopsy might represent the standard surgical procedure in order to avoid unnecessary morbidity after surgery, preserving accurate staging of the disease in the axilla.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	CHEK2 1100delC is not a risk factor for male breast cancer population.	Genetic risk factors for male breast cancer (MBC) are poorly understood. High penetrance genes such as BRCA1 or BRCA2 account for only a small proportion of the disease. A 1100delC mutation in CHEK2 (previously known as CHK2), a cell-cycle checkpoint kinase, has been implicated in predisposition of Li-Fraumeni syndrome (LFS) and breast cancer in families suggestive of LFS. This 1100delC mutation has also been shown to confer a 2-fold increase of breast cancer risk in women and a 10-fold increase of risk in men. It was estimated to account for 1% of breast cancers in women and as much as 9% of breast cancers in men at the population level based on analysis of breast cancer families without BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations. We wanted to evaluate the significance of CHEK2 1100delC in predisposition to MBC by assessing its frequency in a population-based material of 114 Finnish MBC patients. Two patients (1.8%) carried the 1100delC mutation. The mutation frequency among MBC cases was similar to that seen in population controls (26/1885, 1.4%). Our results indicate that CHEK2 1100delC variant does not substantially increase the risk of male breast cancer at the population level. We cannot exclude the fact that a small fraction of hereditary, family-positive male breast cancers could be attributable to CHEK2 mutations.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Role of CHEK2*1100delC in unselected series of non-BRCA1/2 male breast cancers.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	CHEK2*1100delC and male breast cancer risk in Israel.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Abnormal mammary gland development and growth retardation in female mice and MCF7 breast cancer cells lacking androgen receptor.	Phenotype analysis of female mice lacking androgen receptor (AR) deficient (AR-/-) indicates that the development of mammary glands is retarded with reduced ductal branching in the prepubertal stages, and fewer Cap cells in the terminal end buds, as well as decreased lobuloalveolar development in adult females, and fewer milk-producing alveoli in the lactating glands. The defective development of AR-/- mammary glands involves the defects of insulin-like growth factor I-insulin-like growth factor I receptor and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signals as well as estrogen receptor (ER) activity. Similar growth retardation and defects in growth factor-mediated Ras/Raf/MAPK cascade and ER signaling are also found in AR-/- MCF7 breast cancer cells. The restoration assays show that AR NH2-terminal/DNA-binding domain, but not the ligand-binding domain, is essential for normal MAPK function in MCF7 cells, and an AR mutant (R608K), found in male breast cancer, is associated with the excessive activation of MAPK. Together, our data provide the first in vivo evidence showing that AR-mediated MAPK and ER activation may play important roles for mammary gland development and MCF7 breast cancer cell proliferation.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Experiences of men with breast cancer: An exploratory focus group study.	Management and care of men with breast cancer is based on that developed for women. Our study reports that men have specific issues regarding certain aspects of their breast cancer experience, including diagnosis, disclosure, support and gender-specific information, and offers suggestions for improved patient care.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Screening for BRCA1 and BRCA2 germ line point mutations in 600 Italian families with breast and/or ovarian cancer: Mutation prevalence according to phenotype.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Cancer variation associated with the position of BRCA2 gene mutation.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Deleterious BRCA1/2 mutations detected in a Portuguese comprehensive family cancer clinic.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Analysis of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes in Spanish breast/ovarian cancer patients: A high proportion of mutations unique to Spain and evidence of founder effects.	We screened index cases from 410 Spanish breast/ovarian cancer families and 214 patients (19 of them males) with breast cancer for germ-line mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, using SSCP, PTT, CSGE, DGGE, and direct sequencing. We identified 60 mutations in BRCA1 and 53 in BRCA2. Of the 53 distinct mutations observed, 11 are novel and 12 have been reported only in Spanish families (41.5%). The prevalence of mutations in this set of families was 26.3%, but the percentage was higher in the families with breast and ovarian cancer (52.1%). The lowest proportion of mutations was found in the site-specific female breast cancer families (15.4%). Of the families with male breast cancer cases, 59.1% presented mutations in the BRCA2 gene. We found a higher frequency of ovarian cancer associated with mutations localized in the 5' end of the BRCA1 gene, but there was no association between the prevalence of this type of cancer and mutations situated in the ovarian cancer cluster region (OCCR) region of exon 11 of the BRCA2 gene. The mutations 187-188delAG, 330A>G, 5236G>A, 5242C>A, and 589-590del (numbered after GenBank U14680) account for 46.6% of BRCA1 detected mutations whereas 3036-3039del, 6857-6858del, 9254-9258del, and 9538-9539del (numbered after GenBank U43746) account for 56.6% of the BRCA2 mutations. The BRCA1 330A>G has a Galician origin (northwest Spain), and BRCA2 6857-6858del and 9254-9258del probably originated in Catalonia (northeast Spain). Knowledge of the spectrum of mutations and their geographical distribution in Spain will allow a more effective detection strategy in countries with large Spanish populations.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer in men: Treatment is based on results extrapolated from trials for women with breast cancer.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A retrospective cohort study of general mortality in Florida firefighters.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Surgical treatment of the male breast cancer: What amount is optimal?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Features of current and the prognostic factors of the male breast cancer (MBC).		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Clinical features of male breast cancer.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Expression of BRCA1 and BRCA2 in male breast cancers and gynecomastias.	BRCA1 and BRCA2 breast cancer susceptibility genes are responsible for most of the hereditary breast cancers. Mutations in BRCA1 account for up to 40-50% of families with hereditary breast cancer only. Mutations in BRCA2 are linked to the other half of inherited breast cancer families and also to male breast cancer. On the contrary, no sporadic breast tumors have been shown to harbor mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. It seems that altered expressions of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes may contribute to breast cancer development. Moreover, BRCA1 and BRCA2 expressions are regulated in human breast cancer cell lines by estrogen. We addressed the issue of BRCA1 and BRCA2 expression in male breast cancers and gynecomastias. We investigated the presence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 proteins in male breast specimens by immunohistochemical analysis with a panel of antibodies elicited against BRCA1 and BRCA2. The specificity of each antibody has been verified by Western blotting in cell lines from different origins. The characterization of 6 anti-BRCA1 antibodies revealed a BRCA1 220-kDa protein detected in breast cell lines (MDA-MB 231, HBL 100, T-47D and MCF7) or in an acute leukemia (MOLT 4), known to overexpress BRCA1. All 5 anti-BRCA2 antibodies detected a BRCA2 384-kDa protein in the HBL100 and MCF7 breast cell lines. By immunohistochemistry, we found nuclear, perinuclear, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi vesicle, secretion and apical cytoplasmic stainings in gynecomastias and sporadic and hereditary male breast cancers, for BRCA1 and BRCA2 protein expressions. We report an extensive expression of BRCA1 and BRCA2 proteins in different compartments of the mammary gland cells in male breast carcinomas and gynecomastias. This is consistent with the estrogen-dependent expression of BRCA1 and BRCA2 in human breast cells.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: Why is the incidence increasing?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Steroid hormone receptor expression in male breast cancer.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast carcinoma: Outcomes and predictors of local-regional failure in patients treated without radiation therapy.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer in men	Purpose: Breast cancer in men is uncommon; 1500 new cases are diagnosed in the United States yearly. Optimal management of breast cancer in men is unknown because the rarity of the disease precludes large randomized trials. A review of the literature was undertaken with emphasis on articles published over a 10-year period. Data Sources: Articles published between 1942 and 2000 on breast cancer in men were identified by using CancerLit, MEDLINE, and study bibliographies. Study Selection: All retrospective series and studies focusing on the epidemiology, risk factors, genetics, and pathology of breast cancer in men. Data Extraction: Data on the epidemiology, risk factors, genetics, pathology, molecular markers, prognostic factors, therapy, and outcomes of breast cancer in men. Data Synthesis: Carcinoma of the male breast accounts for 0.8% of all breast cancers. Risk factors include testicular disease, benign breast conditions, age, Jewish ancestry, family history, and the Klinefelter syndrome. BRCA2 mutations predispose man to breast cancer and may account for 4% to 14% of all cases. Pathology data were reviewed: 81% of tumors were estrogen receptor positive, 74% were progesterone receptor positive, 37% overexpressed c-erbB-2, 30% overexpressed p53, 79% overexpressed Bcl-2, 51% overexpressed cyclin D1, and 39% overexpressed epidermal growth factor receptor. Prognostic factors include tumor size, histologic grade, and lymph node status; survival is similar to that of breast cancer in women when patients are matched for age and stage. Adjuvant hormonal therapy and chemotherapy, using the same guidelines as for women, are recommended for men. Hormonal therapy is the primary therapy for metastatic disease; chemotherapy should be reserved for hormone-refractory disease. Conclusion: Breast cancer is similar in men and women; however, breast cancer in men is more frequently hormone receptor positive and may be more sensitive to hormonal therapy.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Second primary cancers in men with prostate cancer: An increased risk for male breast cancer: A key to identify BRCA2 families?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Deltopectoral flap for reconstruction of male breast after radical mastectomy for cancer in a patient on hemodialysis	A rare case of advanced male breast cancer in a patient on hemodialysis was successfully treated with radical mastectomy and chemotherapy. Computed tomography of the chest revealed multiple pulmonary metastases. After administration of chemotherapy consisting of 5-fluorouracil (4000mg) and epirubicin (280mg), the pulmonary metastases disappeared and this was associated with a decrease of serum CEA levels and tumor size. Radical mastectomy and reconstruction for the chest wall defect using a deltopectoral flap (DP flap) were performed. Histopathological examination of the resected specimen showed intraductal adenocarcinoma with nodal metastases. The patient has remained well without clinical recurrence of distant metastasis for a follow-up period of two years. Our experience has demonstrated that the DP flap was a feasible approach in male breast reconstruction despite the debilitated condition of the patient.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Novel BRCA2 mutation in a Polish family with hamartoma and two male breast cancers		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	[Male breast cancer in Morocco.]	Introduction: Male breast cancer is a rare disease, often of late presentation and poor prognosis. The aim of this work was to analyze the different clinical and therapeutic features for this disease in men. Patients and methods: This was retrospective study including 12 cases of male breast cancer seen in the Dermatology department of Casablanca between 1988 and 1999. Results: The mean age of the patients was 60 years and the mean delay to consultation was 27 months. The skin was involved by tumor in 11 cases. Ulceration of the skin by tumor was seen in eight patients, and direct extension of the tumor into the nipple without ulceration was seen in three patients. Axillary lymph node involvement was seen in eight patients. Seven patients with invasive disease had metastases at distance. Treatment was usually surgical. Complementary treatment included radiotherapy, chemotherapy and/or hormonotherapy. Discussion: Although breast cancer in men is far less common than breast cancer in women, it is associated with less favorable prognosis because diagnosis is usually made at an advanced stage. Concerted efforts must be made to educate both the public and health professionals, in order to make earlier diagnosis and thereby improve prognosis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Comparative genomic hybridization analysis of benign and invasive male breast neoplasms	Comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) analysis was performed for the identification of chromosomal imbalances in two benign gynecomastias and one malignant breast carcinoma derived from patients with male breast disease and compared with cytogenetic analysis in two of the three cases. CGH analysis demonstrated overrepresentation of 8q in all three cases. One case of gynecomastia presented gain of 1p34.3apprxpter, 11p14apprxq12, and 17p11.2apprxqter, and loss of 1q41apprxqter and 4q33apprxqter. The other gynecomastia presented del(1)(q41) as detected by both cytogenetic and CGH analysis. CGH analysis of the invasive ductal carcinoma confirmed a gain of 17p11.2apprxqter previously detected by cytogenetic analysis. These regions showed some similarity in their pattern of imbalance to the chromosomal alterations described in female and male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Lithuania 1991-2000 year		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Loss of heterozygosity and microsatellite instability in male breast cancer	Male breast cancer is a relatively rare disease that represents about 1% of all male malignancies. Its genetic basis has received little attention. Allelic imbalance, reflected by change in microsatellite repeat number (MSI) or loss of heterozygosity (LOH), is thought to play an important role in carcinogenesis. In this study we have examined DNA extracted from paraffin tissue from 15 patients treated for male breast cancer, for evidence of such abnormalities, at 20 different loci across the genome. Polymerase chain reaction amplified products of normal and tumor DNA pairs were compared by electrophoresis on Spreadex gels. MSI was detected in 5 patients; at a single site in 2 cases and at 3, 7 and 9 sites in another 3 cases. LOH was seen in 8 cases (53%); at more than one site in 4 of these. Two patients had allelic variation at 56 and 62% of assessable sites. The most unstable loci were D2S441 (33%) and D13S325 (27%). These observations indicate that replication errors and allelic loss characterise male breast cancer tissue in much the same way as they do in women. More studies will be needed to establish whether these are random lesions or whether there are specifically affected sites that occur in both male and female breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Reliability of FNAC of the breast in males		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Latvia		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Cowden syndrome patients with germline PTEN mutations	Cowden syndrome (CS) (OMIM 158350) is a multiple hamartoma syndrome associated with germline mutations in the PTEN tumour suppressor gene. While CS is characterised most commonly by non-cancerous lesions (mucocutaneous trichilemmomas, acral and palmoplantar keratoses, and papillomatous papules), it is also associated with an increased susceptibility to breast cancer (in females) and thyroid cancer, as well as non-cancerous conditions of the breast and thyroid. Here we report two cases of male breast cancer occurring in patients with classical CS phenotypes and germline PTEN mutations. The first subject was diagnosed with CS indicated primarily by mucocutaneous papillomatosis, facial trichilemmomas, and macrocephaly with frontal bossing at the age of 31 years. He developed breast cancer at 41 years and subsequently died of the disease. A PTEN mutation, c.802delG, was identified in this subject, yet none of his family members showed evidence of a CS phenotype, suggesting that this PTEN mutation may be a de novo occurrence. The second subject had a CS phenotype including multiple trichilemmomas and thyroid adenoma, developed male breast cancer at 43 years, and died of the disease at 57 years. He was a carrier of a PTEN mutation c.347-351delACAAT that cosegregated with the CS phenotype in affected family members. These two cases of male breast cancer associated with germline PTEN mutations and the CS phenotype suggest that CS may be associated with an increased risk of early onset male as well as female breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Risk factors for male breast cancer: A case-control study from Scandinavia	We report a population-based case-control study on risk factors for male breast cancer. Data on a broad range of previously suggested risk factors were collected in a set of Scandinavian breast cancer cases and matched controls. Incident cases (n=282) with histologically verified carcinomas of the breast were identified from notification to the cancer registries of Denmark, Norway and Sweden over a 4-year period 1987-1991 and of these cases, 156 men could be approached and responded. Controls were identified through national central population registers and were matched individually for country, sex and year of birth. Controls with a diagnosis of breast cancer were excluded; 468 of 780 controls responded. Data on risk factors were collected by self-administered questionnaires mailed to the cases between land 2 years after diagnosis and to controls during the same period. The findings were compatible with an increased risk associated with family history of breast cancer (odds ratio (OR)=3.3, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.0-5.6), obesity 10 years before diagnosis (OR=2.1, 95% CI 1.0-4.5) for BMI>30, diabetes (OR=2.6, 95% CI 1.3-5.3) and the use of digoxin and methyldopa (OR=2.0 and 2.1, respectively). The association with family history of breast cancer has been repeated in several studies, while the relation to anthropometric measures has been equivocal. We could not substantiate some associations seen in other studies; namely those with high education, fertility, marital status, testicular injury, liver disease and religion. The detailed questions about gynaecomastia indicated that many cases reported signs of breast cancer as a gynaecomastia. This type of misunderstanding may explain the strong association with gynaecomastia seen in other studies. Several patients died before contact. Thus, risk factors related to a more aggressive male breast cancer or related to high risk of dying (e.g. liver cirrhosis, heavy smoking) may have been missed.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: A reappraisal of clinical and biologic indicators of prognosis	Between 1970 and 1998, 90 cases of male breast cancer with available pathological material were retrieved. The disease often presented in aged patients (median-66 years) and as advanced stage (stage III/IV-51%). Excluding stage IV disease, the neoplasia were predominantly ductal invasive carcinomas, NOS (not otherwise specified) (92%), grade 1 and grade 2 (94%), positive for estrogen and progesterone receptors (72% and 74%), negative for androgen receptors (100%), p53 negative (95%), c-erbB-2 negative (88%) and DNA aneuploid (73%). Assessment of disease outcome is determined by stage at time of diagnosis, and axillary lymph node status was the only parameter found to have a statistically significant correlation with either disease-free interval or overall survival (p<0.001) by multivariate analysis. Clinically useful information on the probability of relapse can be added by determining c-erbB-2 (p=0.02) and progesterone receptors (p=0.04) in stage III and tumor ploidy (p=0.04) in pN1 subgroups of patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Pigmented Paget's disease of the male breast: Report of a case	An 83-year-old man with pigmented Paget's disease of the breast is reported. He had a blackish swollen right nipple with bloody discharge that lasted for 8 months. Histopathology of the lesion disclosed intraepidermal and dermal atypical cells forming small clusters and underlying intraductal carcinoma. Melanocytes were dispersed in the epidermis. Dermal melanophages were also detected. The atypical cells were positive for carcinoembryonic antigen, human-milk fat globule protein and a recently described new antigen, RCAS-1, but negative for S-100 or HMB-45. We diagnosed this case as Paget's disease of the male breast. Paget's disease of the breast is usually nonpigmented and occurs almost exclusively in women. Pigmented Paget's disease of the male breast is extremely rare, and only a few cases have been reported. Albeit rare, pigmented Paget's disease has to be included in the differential diagnosis of pigmented lesions of the nipple.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Changes in the sex chromosomes in male breast cancer patients.		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male cancer: A qualitative study of male breast cancer	Breast cancer is a rare condition in males. There is a dearth of information about the psychological and social impact of this condition. Data from six in-depth interviews with men who had breast cancer identified seven major issues. These were associated with delay in diagnosis, shock, stigma, body image, causal factors, the provision of information and emotional support. The findings from this small study suggest that there are psychological and social factors for men diagnosed with breast cancer which have implications for their care and management. The recommendations arising from this study are the development of a structured education programme aimed at all primary health-care professionals; with availability of pre and postoperative gender-specific information to alleviate the potential psychological problems associated with the diagnosis; and provision of appropriate support/counselling services for partners of patients.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Endocrine correlates of male breast cancer risk: A case-control study in Athens, Greece	We studied the relation of certain endocrine-related variables among 23 cases of male breast cancer and 76 apparently healthy male controls. There were significant inverse associations with smoking (P = 0.03), birth order (P = 0.02) and reported frequency of orgasms in later life (P = 0.0004). The study provides strong indirect evidence that endocrine factors are important in the aetiology of male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The needs of male BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Joint Meeting of SIAPEC-IAP (Italian Society of Pathological Anatomy and Diagnostic Cytology)-(International Academy of Pathology), Bolznao, Italy, May 24-27, 2000	This meeting contains approximately 175 mixed papers and abstracts, including 56 posters, written in English and Italian, covering topics in cytological diagnostic pathology, such as prostate cancer, colon cancer, breast cancer, gastric cancer, liver cirrhosis, neuroglial tumor, skin cancer, melanoma, sarcoma, bladder cancer, Helicobacter pylori infection, prognostic classification of tumors, gynecological Pap testing, tissue microarrays, radiology, and laboratory quality control.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Karyotypic findings in two cases of male breast cancer	Male breast cancer is uncommon; so far, only 10 cases with chromosome banding analysis have been published. We report the cytogenetic findings of two invasive breast cancers in two Caucasian men lacking a history of familial breast cancer and more than 70 years of age. Both had ductal carcinomas with lymphangiosis carcinomatosa and positive lymph nodes at diagnosis. Strong expression of estrogen receptor, weak expression of progesterone receptor, and lack of expression of androgen receptor by both tumors were demonstrated by immunohistochemistry, as well as lack of expression of p53 and C-ERB-B-2. The karyotypes were 45apprx46,XY,-Y(4),-7(2),+8(2),t(8;12)(q21;q24)(3),del(9)(q22) (3),del(11)(p11p14)(5),del(18)(q21)(7),t(19;20)(p10;q10)(8) (cp13) and 61apprx69,XXXY,-Y(3),del(2)(p21) (4),del(3)(p22q26)(3),-4,-4(5),+5,+5(5),dic(5;11)(p14;q23)(3),del(6)(q23)(4),del(8)(p21)(3),-9(4),-11(4), +i(12)(p10)(4),-16(3),del(17)((13)(5),del(18)(q21)(4),+19(5),+20(4)(cp7), respectively. Although the available data on male breast cancer are still very limited, our findings confirm that gain of an X chromosome, loss of the Y chromosome, gain of chromosome 5, and loss of material from chromosomes 17 and 18 are nonrandom aberrations in male breast cancer. Trisomy 8, characteristic of ductal carcinomas, was found in one case.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Genetic analyses of male breast cancer in Israel	Male breast cancer is a rare disorder, and little is known about the molecular mechanisms associated with the tumorigenic process. We genotyped 31 Jewish Israeli males with breast cancer for the predominant Jewish BRCA1 (185delAG, 5382InsC) and BRCA2 (6174delT) germline mutations: 11 individuals from high-risk families and 20 patients unselected for family history of cancer. Two patients of the high-risk group (18.2%) displayed germline mutations: one harbored the 185delAG BRCA1 mutation, and the other the 6174delT mutation in BRCA2. None of the unselected patients displayed any mutation. In 2 patients, complete mutation analysis of the BRCA2 gene did not reveal any disease-associated mutations. We conclude that the predominant Jewish germline mutations in BRCA1/BRCA2 contribute to male breast cancer in Israel, primarily in Ashkenazi individuals with a family history of cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Oncogenes and male breast carcinoma: c-erbB-2 and p53 coexpression predicts a poor survival	Purpose: To investigate the prognostic value of biomarkers in male breast carcinoma (MBC). Patients and Methods: Fifty patients (mean age, 62.2 years) with invasive ductal carcinoma were retrospectively studied. All patients received surgery; 35 had adjuvant postoperative therapy. The median follow-up was 59 months (range, 1 to 230 months). c-myc, c-erbB-2, p53, and bcl-2 proteins were immunohistochemically detected on sections from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues using 9E11, CB11, DO7, and bcl-2 124 monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Estrogen, progesterone, and androgen receptors were detected using specific mAbs. Cell proliferation was assessed by MIB-1 mAb. Results: In univariate analysis, c-myc, c-erbB-2, and p53 protein overexpression was significantly correlated with prognosis. The median survival was 107 months for c-myc-negative and 52 months for c-myc-positive patients (P = .01), 96 months for c-erbB-2-negative and 39 months for c-erbB-2-positive patients (P = .02), and 100 months for p53-negative and 33 months for p53-positive patients (P = .0008). Tumor histologic grade (P = .01), tumor size (P = .02), patient age at diagnosis (P = .03), and MIB-1 scores (P = .0004) also had prognostic value. In multivariate analysis, only c-erbB-2 and p53 immunoreactivity retained independent prognostic significance. All nine patients who did not express c-erbB-2 and p53 proteins were alive after 58 months, whereas none of the 14 patients expressing both proteins survived at 61 months follow-up (P = .0002). Conclusion: Overexpression of c-myc, c-erbB-2, and p53 proteins may be regarded as an additional prognostic factor in MBC. The combination of c-erbB-2 and p53 immunoreactivity can stratify patients into different risk groups.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	BRCA2 mutations in a Scottish male breast cancer population		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Estrogen receptor gene polymorphisms and male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Brca-1 and brca-2 gene mutation in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap in reconstruction for advanced male breast cancer: Case report	A case of advanced male breast cancer which masqueraded as recurrent abscess of the right breast is presented to highlight the role of contra-lateral rectus abdominis pedicled myocutaneous flap in providing adequate skin and soft tissue cover in male breast reconstruction. This was carried out for this patient following a modified radical mastectomy for stage III (T2b, N2, M0) intraductal carcinoma of the breast. The patient has remained well without clinical features of distant metastasis at a follow up period of two years despite periodic excision of locally recurrent cancer nodules from the affected breast.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A polymorphic tetranucleotide repeat in the CYP19 gene and male breast cancer	The CYP19 gene codes for the aromatase enzyme that is involved in the synthesis of oestrogens. This case-control study examines the relationship between a tetranucleotide repeat sequence in the CYP19 gene and the development of male breast cancer. No significant differences were found between male breast cancer cases and controls.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Cytogenetic heterogeneity and clonal evolution in synchronous bilateral breast carcinomas and their lymph node metastases from a male patient without any detectable BRCA2 germline mutation	Two synchronous bilateral breast carcinomas and their matched lymph node metastases from a 70-year-old man were cytogenetically analyzed. All four tumors were near-diploid, and except for the primary tumor from the right breast, had a 45,X,-Y clone in common. The loss of the Y chromosome was, however, common to all four tumors, whereas metaphase cells from peripheral blood lymphocytes showed a normal 46,XY chromosome complement. The primary tumor from the right breast was monoclonal, with loss of the Y chromosome and gain of 1q, whereas its metastasis had two related clones: the 45,X,-Y clone, and the other a more complex version of the clone in the primary tumor, with inv(3), -14, and del(16)(q13) as additional changes. The primary tumor from the left breast was polyclonal with three unrelated clones: 45,X,-Y/45,XY,-18/47,XY,+20, two of which were present in its metastasis. DNA flow cytometric studies showed diploidy for both primary tumors. No mutation in the BRCA2 gene was found on analysis of DNA from peripheral blood lymphocytes. The present findings show that del(16)(q13) is a recurrent finding among male breast carcinomas and that some of the primary cytogenetic abnormalities, as well as the pattern of chromosomal changes during the progression of sporadic breast carcinoma in the male, are similar to those in the female. In addition, the loss of the Y chromosome in the tumors but not in peripheral blood lymphocytes, suggests a possible role for this abnormality in the pathogenesis of male breast carcinoma.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Prognostic factors in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The CAG repeat within the androgen receptor gene in male breast cancer patients		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gynecomastia		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Choroidal neovascular membrane: A late complication of inactive Toxocara chorioretinitis		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A polymorphism in the CYP17 gene is associated with male breast cancer	The CYP17 gene codes for the cytochrome P450c17alpha enzyme that is involved in the synthesis of oestrogens. This case-control study from the South East of Scotland shows that a polymorphism of the CYP17 gene is associated with an increased risk of male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: New prognostic factors?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Incidence of malignant tumours in relatives of BRCA1 and BRCA2 germline mutation carriers	We investigated cancer incidence between 1958 and 1995 in 1873 individuals belonging to 29 consecutively identified BRCA1 and 20 BRCA2 associated families from Southern Sweden using data from parish and local tax authorities, as well as the Swedish Cancer Registry, Cause of Death Registry and Census Registry. 150 malignant tumours were analysed from 1145 relatives in the BRCA1 families and 87 tumours were analysed from 728 relatives in the BRCA2 families. After excluding index cases which led to the mutation analysis, the incidence for all malignant tumours was significantly increased for both BRCA1- standardised morbidity rate, SMR, 1.98, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.59-2.45; P < 0.0001 and BRCA2- (SMR 1.79, 95% CI 1.35-2.31; P < 0.0001) associated family members. For women in BRCA1-associated families, the incidence of breast cancer (SMR 3.76, 95% CI 2.29-5.80, P < 0.0001), ovarian cancer (SMR 15.49, 95% CI 9.46-23.92, P < 0.0001), stomach cancer (SMR 5.86, 95% CI 1.60-15.01, P= 0.005) were significantly increased. Amongst men only invasive squamous cell cancer of the skin was significantly increased (SMR 6.02, 95% CI 1.96-14.05, P = 0.002). In BRCA2 associated families, female breast cancer (SMR 3.03, 95% CI 1.61-5.18, P = 0.0005) was increased after exclusion of index cases. If these were included, ovarian cancer (SMR 5.16, 95% CI 1.89-11.24, P = 0.001), invasive cervical cancer (SMR 4.21, 95% CI 1.15-10.79, P = 0.016), male breast cancer (SMR 290.52, 95% CI 125.42-572.43, P < 0.0001), and prostate cancer (SMR 2.21, 95% CI 0.89-4.56, P = 0.042) were significantly increased. The increased risk for ovarian cancer in BRCA2 related families were limited to the cases leading to mutation analysis. Our data suggest that apart from breast and ovarian cancer, the incidence of other cancer types do not appear to be greatly increased in BRCA1- and BRCA2-associated families and does not warrant specific clinical follow-up in carriers.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Radiotherapy of male breast cancer	Background: Male breast cancer (MBC) is a rare disease. This study reports the results of a treatment including radiotherapy of a single institution. Material and Methods: The hospital charts of 23 patients with nonmetastatic MBC treated from 1971 to 1991 were reviewed. The tumor was located centrally or medially in 10 patients. Tumor classification: Tis C3 n = 1, pT1 n = 2, pT2 n = 8, T2 C3 n = 1, pT3 n=4, pT4 n=6, unknown n=1, cN0 n=8, cN+ n=1, pN0 n = 5, pN+ n = 9. Biopsy only was performed in 2 patients, tumorectomy in 2 patients and radical or modified radical mastectomy in 19 patients. Radiotherapy was given to the chest wall (median total dose 46 Gy) in all patients but two (who had only irradiation of the nodes) and to the axiliary/supraclavicular nodes (median total dose 48 Gy) in all patients but two (who had only chest wall irradiation). In 5 patients radiation of the mammaria interna nodes was added to the supraclavicular field (median total dose 48 Gy). 5 patients with known receptor status were treated with adjuvant hormone therapy. Median follow-up was 62 (6-182) months. Results: 19 patients died, 15 with tumor. The median overall survival time was 63 months, the disease-specific 5-year and 10-year survival rate was 69% and 35%, respectively. There were 3 chest wall relapses in one of two nonirradiated patients and in one of two only irradiated patients, respectively. Distant metastases occurred in 12 patients. Conclusion: This study supports adjuvant radiotherapy for treatment of advanced male breast cancer.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Mutation analysis of BRCA1 and BRCA2 in Turkish cancer families: A novel mutation BRCA2 3414del4 found in male breast cancer	Since the identification of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 breast-ovarian cancer susceptibility genes, mutation analyses have been carried out in different populations. Here we screened 15 Turkish breast and breast-ovarian cancer families for mutations in both genes by conformation-sensitive gel electrophoresis (CSGE) and the protein truncation test (PTT), followed by DNA sequencing. Three families included a male breast cancer case, one without family history. Three germline mutations were identified, two in BRCA1 and one in BRCA2. The two BRCA1 mutations, 5382insC and 5622C fwdarw T, were found in breast-ovarian cancer families. The BRCA2 3414delTCAG is a novel mutation detected in a site-specific breast cancer family that included 1 case of male breast cancer. These first results of Turkish families show that the frequency of germline BRCA1 or BRAC2 mutations appears to be high in families with at least 3 breast and/or ovarian cancer cases.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	High frequency of germ-line BRCA2 mutations among Hungarian male breast cancer patients without family history	To determine the contribution of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations to the pathogenesis of male breast cancer in Hungary, the country with the highest male breast cancer mortality rates in continental Europe, a series of 18 male breast cancer patients and three patients with gynecomastia was analyzed for germ-line mutations in both BRCA1 and BRCA2. Although no germ-line BRCA1 mutation was observed, 6 of the 18 male breast cancer cases (33%) carried truncating mutations in the BRCA2 gene. Unexpectedly, none of them reported a family history for breast/ ovarian cancer. Four of six truncating mutations were novel, and two mutations were recurrent. Four patients (22%) had a family history of breast/ovarian cancer in at least one first- or second-degree relative; however, no BRCA2 mutation was identified among them. No mutation was identified in either of the genes in the gynecomastias. These results provide evidence for a strong genetic component of male breast cancer in Hungary.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The plasminogen activation system in the male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Cyclin D1 expression is highly correlated to histopathologic features in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in the hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer syndrome	A male member of a large HNPCC kindred, affected by primary malignancies of the breast and colon, was identified. This individual was found to harbor a germline mutation of the MLH1 mismatch repair gene previously shown to segregate with disease in this kindred. The breast tumor exhibited somatic reduction to homozygosity for the MLH1 mutation, and microsatellite instability was evident in the breast tumor. We conclude that hereditary male breast cancer can occur as an integral tumor in the HNPCC syndrome.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Androgen receptor (AR) expression in male breast carcinomas (MBC): Prognostic significance		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer. A review of the literature. A case report	Purpose: A review is carried out regarding the information available on male breast cancer, in relationship to epidemiological data, histopathological characteristics, clinical aspects, diagnostic methods, therapeutic procedures, and prognostic factors of the disease. Material and methods: A case of breast cancer is presented in a 65-year-old man. The tumor was located in the retroareolar region, with a size of 5 X 3 cm. Results: The diagnostic study showed a ductal invasive carcinoma, with negative axillary lymph nodes. Radical mastectomy was performed followed by postoperative irradiation of the chest wall and hormonal therapy. Six months after surgery the patient was disease-free. Conclusions: Several facts have been emphasized, including the involvement of genetic, hormonal and environmental factors for breast cancer development in males, the sex differences, and the prognostic factors.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Case-control study of occupational exposures and male breast cancer	Objective-To investigate whether risk of male breast cancer is associated with workplace exposures. Methods-A case-control study of 178 cases of male breast cancer and 1041 controls was carried out with data from the United States national mortality followback survey, which collected questionnaire information from proxy respondents of a 1% sample of all 1986 United States deaths among subjects aged 25-74 years. Occupational exposure to electromagnetic fields, high temperatures, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), herbicides, other pesticides, and organic solvents was assessed by applying job-exposure matrices, based on the 1980 United States census occupation and industry codes, to the longest job held by study subjects as reported by the informants. A socioeconomic status index was created by combining information on annual family income, education, assets, and occupation to assess the association of socioeconomic status with male breast cancer. Relative risks were derived from logistic regression modelling, which included age, socioeconomic status, marital status, and body mass index, as well as occupational exposures. Results-Risk of male breast cancer increased significantly with increasing socioeconomic status index (test for trend: p < 0.01), but the risks associated with individual socioeconomic status variables were smaller and the trends were not significant. A significant increase in risk of male breast cancer was associated with employment in blast furnaces, steel works, and rolling mills (odds ratio (OR) 3.4; 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.1 to 10.1, based on six cases), and motor vehicle manufacturing (OR 3.1; 95% CI 1.2 to 8.2, based on seven cases). However, exposures to electromagnetic fields, high temperature, PAHs, herbicides, other pesticides, and organic solvents were not associated with risk of male breast cancer. Conclusions-The role of workplace exposures in increasing risk of breast cancer among men employed in motor vehicle manufacturing and in blast furnaces, steel works, and rolling mills deserves further investigation. The finding on socioeconomic status suggests that, as well as reproductive factors, other lifestyle factors such as diet that may be related to high socioeconomic status in men should be investigated further.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Two-step approach for the operation of male breast cancer: Report of a case at high risk for surgery	We report herein the rare case of a 61-year-old man with a history of dissecting aortic aneurysm as well as right breast cancer. He complained of abdominal pain due to a progress of aortic dissection in preparation for the radical operation for breast cancer. Blood pressure was initially controlled and he was administered a simple mastectomy under local anesthesia. One month after the first operation, a radical operation for breast cancer was successfully performed. The tumor was in stage II, and two years after the operation, the patient remained free of recurrent disease. This two-step approach for the operation of male breast cancer may be used as a treatment of breast cancer if a patient is too frail for normal surgery.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast disease	A variety of benign and malignant breast conditions affect the male breast. Gynaecomastia is common in puberty and old age and only when it is progressive or presents outwith these age groups are specific investigations indicated. Male breast cancer accounts for approximately 0.7% of all breast cancers. Lifetime risk for a male with an affected mother and sister is 2.3% and some of the families carry the BRACA2 gene. Infection is uncommon but when it does occur, causes include smoking in periareolar sepsis.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Risk factors for male breast cancer (United States)	Objectives: The etiology of male breast cancer is obscure, although an excess risk has been associated with Klinefelter syndrome, testicular disorders, benign breast disease including gynecomastia, use of exogenous estrogens, radiation, and a family history of male or female breast cancer. We conducted a case-control study to investigate risk factors further for breast cancer in men. Methods: Based on data from the 1986 National (United States) Mortality Followback Survey (NMFS) of almost 20,000 deceased adults (age 25 years or over), we compared information obtained from next-of-kin interviews of 178 men who died of breast cancer with that of 512 male controls who died of other causes. Information was obtained on selected demographic and other factors, including diet, exercise, occupation, height and weight, and use of tobacco and alcohol. Results: Increased risks were found for men who were described by their next-of-kin as very overweight (odds ratio (OR) = 2.3, 95 percent confidence interval (CI) = 1.1-5.0). The risks associated with the three upper quartiles of body mass index (BMI) (wt/ht) were 1.3, 1.6, and 2.3, respectively, with a significant dose-response relationship (P < 0.01). An excess risk was also associated with limited exercise (OR = 1.3, CI = 0.8-2.0). Consumption of red meat was associated with an increased risk, and consumption of fruits and vegetables with a decreased risk, although the trends were not significant. No association was found for tobacco or alcohol use, but an excess risk was associated with higher levels of socioeconomic status (SES) (OR = 1.8, CI = 1.1-3.0). Conclusions: Our study suggests that obesity increases the risk of male breast cancer, possibly through hormonal mechanisms, while dietary factors, physical activity, and SES indicators also deserve further investigation.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Therapeutic strategies in male breast cancer	Male breast cancer represents 1% of all cancers in men. Increased age and advanced stage at the time of diagnosis as well as a high percentage of estrogen receptor-containing hormone-sensitive tumors represent specific features. In primary male breast cancer modified radical mastectomy proved to be the standard surgical approach. In case of circumscript invasion of underlying muscles, additional local excision may be sufficient. In tumors presenting with extensive invasion, a combined modality approach (preoperative chemotherapy, toilet mastectomy, chest wall irradiation) should be used preferably to traditional radical mastectomy. Local failure rate can be reduced by postoperative irradiation and can be advocated after removal of locally advanced tumors, especially in case of concomitant infiltration of dermis and/or chest wall or in case of increased number of involved axillary lymph nodes. Tumorectomy with axillary dissection and postoperative radiotherapy may be applied in selected cases of very small tumors without nipple involvement. Systemic adjuvant therapy is advisable in the presence of involved axillary lymph nodes; tamoxifen for receptor-positive patients and combination chemotherapy for receptor-negative patients should be given. Application in stage I patients should be individualized, following the guidelines of the consensus conference, St. Gallen 1995. First-line hormonal therapy for metastatic disease is tamoxifen for estrogen receptor-positive patients followed by LH-RH analogs + antiandrogens, progestins, orchidectomy, or aminoglutethimide. The validity of selective aromatase inhibitors remains to be clarified, their use in male breast cancer should be considered. Receptor-negative tumors and those rapidly progressing should be treated with combination chemotherapy. This is also true for primary or secondary failures after hormonal treatment. Receptor-positive but aggressive metastatic disease can be treated by combined chemo-hormone therapy.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	An interstitial tandem duplication of 9p23-24 coexists with a mutation in the BRCA2 gene in the germ line of three brothers with breast cancer	Germ-line mutations of the BRCA2 gene account for the majority of families with both male and female breast cancer. However, among independently ascertained families with the same mutation, cases of male breast cancer often appear to cluster in a single family or in a particular branch of one family. This suggests that the risk of male breast cancer conferred by BRCA2 mutations may be modified by other genetic or environmental factors. We report a family in which three brothers with breast cancer carry in their germ line two genetic abnormalities: an insertion A at nucleotide 2041 in exon 10 of BRCA2, which leads to premature termination of the encoded protein at codon 615, and a tandem interstitial duplication involving chromosome bands 9p23-24. We propose that the coexistence of this rare chromosomal abnormality with BRCA2 mutation may be augmenting the risk of male breast cancer conferred by the BRCA2 mutation.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in the province of Ontario: A sixty year review		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Analysis of Swedish male breast cancer family data: A simple way to incorporate a common sibling effect	Based on a population-based cohort study, Olsson et al. (1993) found significant evidence for elevated incidence of breast and ovarian cancers among female first-degree relatives of men with breast cancer. Using an extension of logistic regressive models we investigate whether, after allowing for multifactorial familial correlations, single locus segregation could be the cause of the elevated incidence in these families. The logit for a given sib in the class D logistic regressive model depends on the order in which affected sibs occur in a sibship. That makes the model less appropriate for the situation where a polygenic component or a common sibling environment may be present, as well as being computationally cumbersome. In this paper, we propose to use the proportion of siblings in a sibship who are affected to quantify a sibling correlation. That not only relaxes the interchangeability problem but also makes the model computationally efficient. We then use this modified class D logistic regressive model for our segregation analysis. Using the proportion of siblings in a sibship who are affected as a covariate resulted in a significantly higher likelihoods in all the models we investigated. We found evidence for a dominant Mendelian gene leading to early age of onset of breast and/or ovarian cancer. This could either be a germline mutation of BRCA2 or a mutation in a gene different from BRCA2.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Gynecomastia and male breast cancer: Is there a biologic link?		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The HER-2/neu oncogene in breast cancer: Prognostic factor, predictive factor, and target for therapy	The HER-2/neu oncogene encodes a transmembrane tyrosine kinase receptor with extensive homology to the epidermal growth factor receptor. HER-2/neu has been widely studied in breast cancer. In this review, the association of HER-2/neu gene and protein abnormalities studied by Southern and slot blotting, immunohistochemistry, enzyme immunoassays, and fluorescence in situ hybridization with prognosis in breast cancer is studied in depth by review of a series of 47 published studies encompassing more than 15,000 patients. The relative advantages of gene amplification assays and frozen/fresh tissue immunohistochemistry over paraffin section immunohistochemistry are discussed. The significance of HER-2/neu overexpression in ductal carcinoma in situ and the HER-2/neu status in uncommon female breast conditions and male breast cancer are also considered. The potential value of HER-2/neu status for the prediction of response to therapy in breast cancer is presented in the light of a series of recently published studies showing a range of impact on the outcome of patients treated with hormonal, cytotoxic, and radiation therapies. The evidence that HER-2/neu gene and protein abnormalities in breast cancer predict resistance to tamoxifen therapy and relative sensitivity to chemotherapy regimens including adriamycin is presented. The review will also evaluate the status of serum-based testing for circulating the HER-2/neu receptor protein and its ability to predict disease outcome and therapy response. In the final section, the review will briefly present preliminary data concerning the use of antibody-based therapies directed against the HER-2/neu protein and their potential to become a new modality for breast cancer treatment. The recently presented phase III clinical trial evidence that systemic administration of anti-HER2 antibodies (Herceptin), alone and in combination with cytotoxic chemotherapy in patients with HER-2/neu overexpressing primary tumors, can increase the time to recurrence and overall response rates in metastatic breast cancer is reviewed.	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	A case of brain metastases from male breast cancer responding to tamoxifen		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Renal cell carcinoma with X;1 translocation in a child with Klinefelter syndrome		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is highly correlated to metastatic potential in male breast cancer		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Estradiol metabolism in cirrhosis	Abnormal estrogen metabolism has been found in cirrhosis after administration of intravenous tracers of estradiol-3H to 6 patients and 23 healthy controls. The major abnormalities observed involved estrogen metabolities other than the 3 "classic" ones, i. e., estrone (El), estradiol (E2), and estriol (E3). Urinary recovery of radioactivity was regularly elevated in the patients, to an average of 71% of the dose compared to 51% in normals. This is considered to reflect the component of intrahepatic cholestasis in cirrhosis. The per cent dose recovered as urinary glucosiduronates (42%) was normal in cirrhotics in contrast to impaired glucuronidation of cortisol metabolites in this disease. El and E2 were present in normal amounts, and E3 was slightly elevated to 21% of the extract compared to 14% in controls. There were strikingly decreased excretion of 2-hydroxyestrone (3% compared with normal 2O%) and 2-methoxyestrone (2% compared with 5%) and increased excretion of 16a-hydroxyestrone (12% compared with normal 6%). Thus cirrhosis, too, is characterized by the reciprocal relationship between decreased 2-hydroxylation and increased 16a-hydroxylation previously described in hypothyroidism and male breast cancer. However, unlike these latter, the increase of 16[alpha]-hydroxy metabolites was less than the decrease of 2-hydroxy metabolites. The data indicate clearcut impairment of 2-hydroxylation, suggestive impairment of 16a-hydroxylation, and a definite depression of the reaction 16[alpha]-hydroxyestrone [long dash]estriol, the latter finding so far unique to cirrhosis. Demonstration of abnormal peripheral metabolism of estrogen in cirrhosis provides a new approach to the origin of the hyperestrogenic syndrome in this disease. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Authors	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Demographic, clinical and survivorship characteristics of males with primary cancer of the breast	A study of all males diagnosed and treated for primary histologically confirmed adeno-carcinoma of the breast, reported by all US Veterans Administration hospitals from 1958 through 1963 is presented. Cases are compared with 2 groups of control subjects selected from a numerical sequence of patients either in all diagnostic categories or with urinary-bladder or kidney cancer, and with the living population of veterans, a one-day 35% census of medical and surgical patients in these hospitals, and a 1% sample of Veterans Administration hospital discharges. Male breast cancer was not associated with marital status, religion, race, occupation, geography, selected systemic diseases or reported use of tobacco. Rates of breast-cancer incidence and prevalence increased with age but the relative mortality experiences decreased with age. The average death rate for breast-cancer cases with generalized metastasis was 4 times greater than for other cases and 2 times greater than for US males of the cases' age and race. Early hospitalization and intensive follow-up were related to long periods ol patient survival and high rates of case prevalence. Male breast cancer when both localized and treated did not reduce patient survival, but when metastasized beyond axillary nodes (although treated) significantly increased patient mortality. Rates of incidence, survival and prevalence for older males were higher than for young males with breast cancer. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: From auth. summ	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Comment: Male breast cancer [man]		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Klinefelter's syndrome and male breast cancer [letter]		BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Paget's disease of the male breast. A case report	A case of Paget's disease of the male breast was reported. The incidence of Paget's disease in men appeared to be extremely low. Male breast cancer was not diagnosed at as early a stage in the disease as was female breast cancer. The cure rate therefore was not as favorable. It is of prime importance to realize the rarity of this disease; early diagnosis and early operation are mandatory. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Authors	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Cancer of the male breast	Observations of 507 cases of male breast cancer reveal that cancer in the male occurs at a slightly later time in life than in the female breast. Malignancy of the male breast is unfortunately diagnosed in approximately 60 per cent of cases when the tumor is no longer localized. Delay, primarily by the patient, plays a major role in the stage of the cancer at diagnosis being regional or distant rather than localized. Further data must be accumulated to correlate the relationship of delay in diagnosis to ultimate survival. Educational efforts to the public to reduce this delay must continue, new adjunct diagnosis techniques in finding the cancer earlier must be developed to supplement the history and physical examination and aggressive efforts in our surgical therapy must be promoted. The five-year survival rate for all eligible cases is lower for males than for females and approximates 41 per cent. This difference in survival between male and female cannot be attributed to stage nor type of therapy and therefore the influence of endocrine factors or other biological influences must be determined to explain this difference. Radical rather than simple mastectomy yields superior five-year survival results. The data suggest that it is still the procedure of choice in the management of operable and resectable carcinomas of the male breast. However, variable factors in the selection of cases for simple mastectomy, as in female breast cancer, remains an unknown quantity and requires further study. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Author	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	On bilharziasis and male breast cancer in Egypt: A preliminary report and review of the literature	In the present breast cancer series covering material from the Pathology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Alexandria, Egypt, during the period 1950-59, male cases formed 6.4% of the total against a maximum frequency of 1.3% found in other countries. Out of the eight traceable male cases, seven showed a history of or the presence of bilharzial infection, three further cases observed later. The high percentage of male breast cancer consistently observed in Egyptian figures is attributed to hyperoestrogenism secondary to bilharzial liver fibrosis. More work is being carried out on male cases of bilnarziasis, gynaecomastia and breast cancer to investigate their liver functions biochemically and by the mitochondrial activity of the hepatic cells. This evidence favors suggestions from earlier authors of hyperoestrogenism due to bilharziasis as a causal factor in male breast cancer, which shows a higher sex ratio in Egypt than elsewhere. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Authors	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	The epidemiology of breast cancer	A review of available data on the epidemiology of breast cancer indicated the following: (a) a remarkable stability of the trend of mortality from female breast cancer in the United States since 1930; (b) Japan has the lowest death rate for female breast cancer, and Japan and Finland for male breast cancer, in the world; (c) the logarithm of the age-specific death rates from female breast cancer can be resolved into 2 linear components with the slope of the rates prior to 40-45 years of age being greater than the slope of those after 40-45 years of age; a similar change of slope, although to a lesser degree was observed for males. It was noted that for females this age group corresponded to the time of menopause; (d) female patients with breast cancer were more frequently never married or, when married, married at a later age than women in general. Since female breast cancer patients more often gave a history of having had artificial menopause and single women had had artificial menopause less frequently than married women, it was hypothesized that the single-married differences may reflect the differences in frequency of artificial menopause among single and married women; (e) the inverse relationship of frequency and length of nursing with female breast disease is far from being conclusive; (f) studies show that females with benign breast disease have an excess risk of developing breast cancer, but more definitive studies are needed; (g) studies show the existence of familial aggregation of breast cancer among both males and females; (h) a study of male breast cancer patients indicated that a larger proportion of them had a history of orchitis, orchiectomy, therapeutic x-ray exposure and benign breast disease. These data were interpreted as suggesting the influence of hormonal factors as being of importance in the etiology of breast cancer, but more definitive and precise studies are needed. A program of epidemiological research was outlined emphasizing the need for integrating laboratory investigations with the field epidemiological studies. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Author	BreastNeoplasmsMale	dummy
dummy	Multicenter cross-sectional screening of the BRCA gene for Chinese high hereditary risk breast cancer populations	Due to lack of systematic reviews, BRCA, DNA Repair Associated (BRCA) mutations in the Chinese population are not completely understood. The following study investigates the prevalence and type of BRCA mutations in Chinese patients with high hereditary risk of breast cancer (BC). Patients Drwere recruited from 14 cities between October 2015 and February 2016, and were selected based on family and personal medical history. BRCA mutations were analyzed by collecting blood samples from all participants. 437 BC patients were included. A total of seventy-six (17.4%) mutation carriers were identified with no geographic difference. The mutation rate in the early-onset BC patients was lower compared to family history of breast/ovarian cancer (OC), bilateral BC, male BC, BC&OC or meeting >= 2 criteria (9.2 vs. 21.7, 24.0, 22.2, 16.7 and 24.3%, respectively, P=0.007). A total of 61 mutation sites were identified (BRCA1 32, BRCA2 29) including 47.5% novel sites and extra 10 variants of uncertain significance. A total of five sites were repeated in more than one unrelated patient. A total of 11 sites were associated with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, two of which were confirmed by family pedigrees. Compared with BRCA-patients, patients with BRCA1 mutation tended to be triple-negative BC (P<0.001), whereas patients with BRCA2 mutation were more likely to be hormone receptor positive BC (P=0.02). The present study provides a general BRCA mutation profile in the Chinese population. The prevalence of BRCA mutation in BC patients with high hereditary risk is lower compared with Western populations. Chinese mutation type is different with Western people, without obvious founder mutation.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Mutational analysis of RAD51C and RAD51D genes in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer families from Murcia (southeastern Spain)	RAD51C and RAD51D have been defined as susceptibility genes for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome in several studies. In the present study, a mutation analysis of these genes was performed on non BRCA1/2 families. RAD51C and RAD51D genes were analyzed in 141 and 77 families, respectively. The analysis included direct sequencing and multiple ligation probe analysis. The RAD51C pathogenic variant c.404G > A was identified in a breast and ovarian cancer family (0.7%), while the RAD51D pathogenic variant c.694C > T was described in an ovarian cancer family (1.3%). Moreover, three unknown clinical significance variants were detected: c.307T > G in RAD51C, and c.413A > G and c.715C > T in RAD51D. No large genomic rearrangements (LGRs) were found. RAD51D carriers suffered from premenopausal ovarian tumors. These results increase our knowledge about the RAD51C and RAD51D mutation spectrum and support the notion that these genes should be included in the gene panel testing performed on patients with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Can chimerism explain breast/ovarian cancers in BRCA non-carriers from BRCA-positive families?	Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC) is most frequently caused by mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 (in short, BRCA) genes. The incidence of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer in relatives of BRCA mutation carriers who test negative for the familial mutation (non-carriers) may be increased. However, the data is controversial, and at this time, these individuals are recommended the same cancer surveillance as general population. One possible explanation for BRCA phenocopies (close relatives of BRCA carriers who have developed cancer consistent with HBOC but tested negative for a familial mutation) is natural chimerism where lack of detectable mutation in blood may not rule out the presence of the mutation in the other tissues. To test this hypothesis, archival tumor tissue from eleven BRCA phenocopies was investigated. DNA from the tumor tissue was analyzed using sequence-specific PCR, capillary electrophoresis, and pyrosequencing. The familial mutations were originally detected in the patients' first-degree relatives by commercial testing. The same testing detected no mutations in the blood of the patients under study. The test methods targeted only the known familial mutation in the tumor tissue. Tumor diagnoses included breast, ovarian, endometrial and primary peritoneal carcinoma. None of the familial mutations were found in the tumor samples tested. These results do not support, but do not completely exclude, the possibility of chimerism in these patients. Further studies with comprehensive sequence analysis in a larger patient group are warranted as a chimeric state would further refine the predictive value of genetic testing to include BRCA phenocopies.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Crosstalk of DNA double-strand break repair pathways in poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitor treatment of breast cancer susceptibility gene 1/2-mutated cancer	Germline mutations in breast cancer susceptibility gene 1 or 2 (BRCA1 or BRCA2) significantly increase cancer risk in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC). Both genes function in the homologous recombination (HR) pathway of the DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair process. Therefore, the DNA-repair defect characteristic of cancer cells brings about a therapeutic advantage for poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitor-induced synthetic lethality. PARP inhibitor-based therapeutics initially cause cancer lethality but acquired resistance mechanisms have been found and need to be elucidated. In particular, it is essential to understand in detail the mechanism of DNA damage and repair to PARP inhibitor treatment. Further investigations have shown the roles of BRCA1/2 and its associations to other molecules in the DSB repair system. Notably, the repair pathway chosen in BRCA1-deficient cells could be entirely different from that in BRCA2-deficient cells after PARP inhibitor treatment. The present review describes synthetic lethality and acquired resistance mechanisms to PARP inhibitor through the DSB repair pathway and subsequent repair process. In addition, recent knowledge of resistance mechanisms is discussed. Our model should contribute to the development of novel therapeutic strategies.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Molecular test for BRCA 1 and 2: Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. Analysis of cost effectiveness of its implementation		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Uncommon hereditary gynaecological tumour syndromes: pathological features in tumours that may predict risk for a germline mutation	The most common hereditary gynaecological tumour syndromes are hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome and Lynch syndrome. However, pathologists also may encounter gynaecological tumours in women with rare hereditary syndromes. Many of these tumours exhibit distinctive gross and microscopic features that are associated with a risk for an inherited gene mutation. The sensitivity and specificity of these tumour pathology features for predicting an inherited mutation vary depending on the syndrome. By recognising these tumour features, pathologists may potentially contribute to the diagnosis of an unsuspected syndrome by recommending referral of the patient for formal risk assessment by genetic counselling. Patients additionally benefit from diagnosis of an inherited syndrome because many also carry a lifetime risk for developing primary malignancies outside of the gynaecological tract. Early diagnosis of an inherited syndrome permits early screening, detection, and management of additional malignancies associated with the syndrome. This review highlights these rare syndromes and their tumour pathology, including Peutz-Jeghers syndrome (gastric type mucinous carcinoma of the cervix; ovarian sex cord tumour with annular tubules); hereditary leiomyoma renal cell carcinoma syndrome (uterine leiomyoma); tuberous sclerosis complex (uterine PEComa; uterine lymphangioleiomyomatosis); DICER1 syndrome (ovarian Sertoli-Leydig cell tumour; cervical embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma); rhabdoid tumour predisposition syndrome 2 (small cell carcinoma of the ovary, hypercalcaemic type); Cowden syndrome (endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma); naevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (ovarian fibroma); and Von Hippel-Lindau syndrome (clear cell papillary cystadenoma of the broad ligament).	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Simultaneous detection of genetic and copy number alterations in BRCA1/2 genes	Germline mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes (BRCA1/2) predispose to hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC), and their dysregulation increases the risk of cancers. The detection of pathogenic BRCA1/2 variants is essential for the diagnosis and prevention of HBOC, and for offering treatment decisions for patients. Therefore, there is a growing demand for the development of accurate, rapid assay systems that simultaneously detect pathogenic variants and copy number alterations. Here, we tested Thermo Fisher Scientific's newly developed Oncomine (R) BRCA1/2 Panel. We showed that all mutations in standard reference DNA were detected with high accuracy, and that values of allelic fractions were detected with high concordance (R-2 = 0.9986). The Oncomine (R) BRCA1/2 Panel detected 21 pathogenic germline variants in 147 patients with breast and/or ovarian cancer, of which 20 were detected by the previously-launched Ion AmpliSeq T BRCA1/2 Panel, except for one frameshift mutation. The Oncomine (R) BRCA1/2 Panel precisely captured one additional frameshift mutation, which is difficult to detect because of the homopolymer site. Large genomic deletion was identified in one sample, which was previously detected by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification. Oncomine (R) BRCA1/2 Panel could accurately detect pathogenic variant and copy number alteration, and be an alternative assay to investigate BRCA1/2 germline and somatic mutations.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Metabolomics reveals novel blood plasma biomarkers associated to the BRCA1-mutated phenotype of human breast cancer	Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC) is partly due to the presence of mutations in the BRCA genes. Triple-negative (TN) breast cancer (BC) shares histological characteristics with germline BRCA1 mutation-associated tumours. We have investigated the metabolic profiles of human breast cancer (BC) cell lines carrying BRCA1 pathogenic mutations by non-targeted liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry technology. Based on our in vitro results, we performed a targeted metabolomic analysis of plasma samples from TN HBOC patients taking into account their BRCA1 genotype. BRCA1 promoter hypermethylation and the BRCAness phenotype of BC cell lines were also studied. The purpose of this study was to determine the metabolic signature of HBOC syndrome and TNBC patients and to evaluate the potential contribution of the metabolites identified to the genetic diagnosis of breast cancer. The present results show the existence of a differential metabolic signature for BC cells based on the BRCA1 functionality. None of the studied BC cell lines presented hypermethylation of the BRCA1 promoter region. We provide evidence of the existence of free methylated nucleotides capable of distinguishing plasma samples from HBOC patients as BRCA1-mutated and BRCA1 non-mutated, suggesting that they might be considered as BRCA1-like biomarkers for TNBC and HBOC syndrome.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Identification of twenty-nine novel germline unclassified variants of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes in 1400 Italian individuals	Objectives: Breast and/or ovarian cancers are complex multifactorial diseases caused by interaction of both genetic and non-genetic factors and characterized by predisposition to inheritance. BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes are the most clinically involved with these kinds of cancer and the spectrum of variants affecting these genes is very wide. In fact, point variants, large or small insertions/deletions, genomic rearrangements can be found in these patients, although a large number of variants with uncertain biological and clinical significance continues to be identified. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technology is actually the most powerful tool for the discovering of causative mutations and novel disease genes, moreover it allows to make a rapid diagnosis of genetic variants giving fast, inexpensive and detailed genetic information.Material and methods: In this study, we report the screening of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes on 1400 consecutive Caucasian patients with breast and/or ovarian cancer history or family risk, attending the oncogenetic ambulatory at the Foundation Policlinico Agostino Gemelli in Rome.Results: We describe twenty-nine novel BRCA1 and BRCA2 variants detected in Italian individuals suffering from hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC).Conclusion: Data regarding novel variants can provide useful information not only at epidemiological but also at clinical level, allowing for the better managing of breast and ovarian cancer patients and their family members. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutational profile and prevalence in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) probands from Southern Brazil: Are international testing criteria appropriate for this specific population?	BackgroundGermline pathogenic variants in BRCA1 and BRCA2 (BRCA) are the main cause of Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer syndrome (HBOC).MethodsIn this study we evaluated the mutational profile and prevalence of BRCA pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants among probands fulfilling the NCCN HBOC testing criteria. We characterized the clinical profile of these individuals and explored the performance of international testing criteria.ResultsA pathogenic/likely pathogenic variant was detected in 19.1% of 418 probands, including seven novel frameshift variants. Variants of uncertain significance were found in 5.7% of individuals. We evaluated 50 testing criteria and mutation probability algorithms. There was a significant odds-ratio (OR) for mutation prediction (p <= 0.05) for 25 criteria; 14 of these had p <= 0.001. Using a cutoff point of four criteria, the sensitivity is 83.8%, and the specificity is 53.5% for being a carrier. The prevalence of pathogenic/likely pathogenic variants for each criterion ranged from 22.1% to 55.6%, and criteria with the highest ORs were those related to triple-negative breast cancer or ovarian cancer.ConclusionsThis is the largest study of comprehensive BRCA testing among Brazilians to date, and the first to analyze clinical criteria for genetic testing. Several criteria that are not included in the NCCN achieved a higher predictive value. Identification of the most informative criteria for each population will assist in the development of a rational approach to genetic testing, and will enable the prioritization of high-risk individuals as a first step towards offering testing in low-income countries.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	High-grade serous carcinoma of tubo-ovarian origin: recent developments	Extra-uterine high-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) accounts for most of the morbidity and mortality associated with ovarian carcinoma, and is one of the leading causes of cancer death in women. Until recently our understanding of HGSC was very limited compared to other common cancers, and it has only been during the last 15 years that we have learned how to diagnose this ovarian carcinoma histotype accurately. Since then, however, there has been rapid progress, with identification of a precursor lesion in the fallopian tube, development of prevention strategies for both those with inherited susceptibility (hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome) and without the syndrome, and elucidation of the molecular events important in oncogenesis. This molecular understanding has led to new treatment strategies for HGSC, with the promise of more to come in the near future. In this review we focus on these recent changes, including diagnostic criteria/differential diagnosis, primary site assignment, precursor lesions and the molecular pathology of HGSC.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	The Role of the Obstetrician-Gynecologist in the Early Detection of Epithelial Ovarian Cancer in Women at Average Risk	Ovarian cancer is the second most common type of female reproductive cancer, and more women die from ovarian cancer than from cervical cancer and uterine cancer combined. Currently, there is no strategy for early detection of ovarian cancer that reduces ovarian cancer mortality. Taking a detailed personal and family history for breast, gynecologic, and colon cancer facilitates categorizing women based on their risk (average risk or high risk) of developing epithelial ovarian cancer. Women with a strong family history of ovarian, breast, or colon cancer may have hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (BRCA mutation) or hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (Lynch syndrome), and these women are at increased risk of developing ovarian cancer. Women with these conditions should be referred for formal genetic counseling to better assess their cancer risk, including their risk of ovarian cancer. If appropriate, these women may be offered additional testing for early detection of ovarian cancer. The use of transvaginal ultrasonography and tumor markers (such as cancer antigen 125), alone or in combination, for the early detection of ovarian cancer in average- risk women have not been proved to reduce mortality, and harms exist from invasive diagnostic testing (eg, surgery) resulting from false-positive test results. The patient and her obstetrician-gynecologist should maintain an appropriate level of suspicion when potentially relevant signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer are present.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome	Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome is an inherited cancer-susceptibility syndrome characterized by multiple family members with breast cancer, ovarian cancer, or both. Based on the contemporary understanding of the origins and management of ovarian cancer and for simplicity in this document, ovarian cancer also refers to fallopian tube cancer and primary peritoneal cancer. Clinical genetic testing for gene mutations allows more precise identification of those women who are at an increased risk of inherited breast cancer and ovarian cancer. For these individuals, screening and prevention strategies can be instituted to reduce their risks. Obstetrician-gynecologists play an important role in the identification and management of women with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. If an obstetrician-gynecologist or other gynecologic care provider does not have the necessary knowledge or expertise in cancer genetics to counsel a patient appropriately, referral to a genetic counselor, gynecologic or medical oncologist, or other genetics specialist should be considered (1). More genes are being discovered that impart varying risks of breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and other types of cancer, and new technologies are being developed for genetic testing. This Practice Bulletin focuses on the primary genetic mutations associated with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, BRCA1 and BRCA2, but also will briefly discuss some of the other genes that have been implicated.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Characterization of a new BRCA1 rearrangement in an Italian woman with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome	We report a novel BRCA1 LGR, involving the complete duplication of exon 3, in an Italian patient with a strong family history of breast and ovarian cancer. Our purpose is to provide an effective characterization of this LGR using a combination of different methods able to establish the exact breakpoints of the duplication.MAQ assay was used as primary screening method in LGRs detection. Array CGH, RT-PCR, and Long-PCR were used for a careful characterization of rearrangement and breakpoint regions. The Repeat Masker program was employed to identify Alu sequences at breakpoint junctions.RNA analysis showed that this in tandem duplication of exon 3 causes an in frame insertion of 18 amino acids within the protein. Array CGH and Long-PCR strategies revealed that the duplication (g.100411_102863dup) involves exactly 2.452 nucleotides between intron 2 and intron 3 of the gene. In addition, while an Alu Sx sequence was identified at upstream breakpoint, no Alu repeats were found at downstream junction. This supports the hypothesis that the new duplication was the result of a non-homologous recombination event between Alu and Non-Alu sequences.Our strategy, which combines a comprehensive set of methodologies, has been able to characterize the new BRCA1 duplication confirming, as previously reported, that MAQ assay represents a reliable and effective method for a primary screening of BRCA rearrangements. We underline the relevance of incorporating quantitative methods for BRCA genes dosage testing into routine diagnostic practice.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Clinical utility of a self-administered questionnaire for assessment of hereditary gynecologic cancer	This study shows that the newly designed self-administered questionnaire is a useful tool to assess the risk of hereditary cancer for patients with gynecologic cancer.A patient's medical history and familial cancer history are important information for assessing the risk of hereditary cancer. We have generated a self-administered questionnaire for patients with gynecologic cancer. This pilot study analyzed the usefulness of this questionnaire and the rates of patients that meet the Society of Gynecologic Oncology criteria in ovarian cancer and endometrial cancer patients.Ovarian or endometrial cancer patients were recruited for this study. After informed consent was obtained, participants completed the questionnaire. Genetic risks were assessed from the data of each patient's questionnaire by Society of Gynecologic Oncology guideline. Clinical and pathological findings were compared between the genetic risk groups.A total of 105 patients were identified with ovarian cancer and 56 patients with endometrial cancer eligible for this study. According to the Society of Gynecologic Oncology guideline, of the 105 ovarian cancer patients, 25 patients (23%) had a 20-25% risk and three patients (2.9%) had a 5-10% risk of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. A further 22 patients (21%) had a 5-10% risk of Lynch syndrome. Two patients (1.9%) met the Amsterdam criteria II. Of 56 endometrial cancer patients, 24 patients (42.9%) had a 5-10% risk of Lynch syndrome. The endometrial cancer patients with genetic risk of Lynch syndrome were younger (mean age: 47.79) at diagnosis compared to patients without a genetic risk of Lynch syndrome (mean age: 57.91).In this study, we were able to show that the newly designed questionnaire is a useful tool for evaluating cancer family history along with Society of Gynecologic Oncology criteria or Amsterdam criteria II. When considering the risk of Lynch syndrome for a patient with ovarian cancer, it is important to collect a second and third relative's family history.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Familial Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor with Germline KIT Mutations Accompanying Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome	Background: Familial gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( GIST) is a rare disease with germline mutations in thec-kit gene ( KIT) or platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha gene ( PDGFRA). We had encountered multiple GISTs in the stomach and small intestine during a screening of ovarian cancer for a woman with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome ( HBOC) with breast cancer susceptibility gene II (BRCA2) mutations. The aim of this study was to examine this case in detail. Case Report: A 65-year-old woman diagnosed with HBOC harboring BRCA2 mutations was found to have multiple tumors in the stomach and small intestine by abdominal screening. All tumors were resected, and KIT gene mutations (p. Trp557Leu and p. Lys558Glu) in exon 11 were detected in all tumors and peripheral blood leukocytes. The patient was diagnosed with familial GIST. Conclusion: This was an extremely rare case in which familial GIST with germline KIT gene mutations coexisted with HBOC.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	First description of a double heterozygosity for BRCA1 and BRCA2 pathogenic variants in. a French metastatic breast cancer patient: A case report	Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome is an autosomal dominant disease caused primarily by germline mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene. Rare cases of double heterozygosity for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations have been reported quite exceptionally in non-Ashkenazi individuals. We describe the case of a woman who developed a bilateral breast cancer, discovered concomitantly, at 46 years old. Biopsies confirmed the presence of two breast cancers with distinct histology. BRCA analysis was tested due to a positive family history of breast cancer, and two pathogenic monoallelic mutations were detected, one in the BRCA1 gene and one in the BRCA2 gene. There is no known Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry. We report the first description of a never described double heterozygosity for BRCA1 and BRCA2 pathogenic variants in a French metastatic breast cancer patient, with two distinct histology, and two distinct mutations.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Investigation of HBOC germline mutations in women diagnosed with breast cancer in Trinidad and Tobago		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Pedigree and BRCA gene analysis in breast cancer patients to identify hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome to prevent morbidity and mortality of disease in Indian population	Global burden of breast cancer is expected to increase to >2 million new cases every year by 2030 and 10% of these are likely to have hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. Identifying these individuals by pedigree and BRCA1/2 mutation analyses will enable us to offer targeted mutation testing and appropriate counseling. This study from a tertiary care hospital showed that of the 127 breast cancer patients on treatment during 2014-2015, 24 of them fulfilled the criteria of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome after detailed verbal autopsy and pedigree analysis, and BRCA1 and 2 next-generation sequencing done after pre-test counseling revealed mutations in 13 cases (54%), these included 9 BRCA1 mutations (69%) and 4 BRCA2 mutation (31%). Subsequent post-test counseling recommended targeted mutation analysis for 64 high-risk members in these 13 families with pathogenic mutations, which will help in surveillance for early detection, appropriate management, and prevention of the disease by decreasing the burden to both family and nation. Results from this preliminary study highlight the importance of genetic counseling, pedigree analysis, and genetic testing. It can be recommended that all oncology units should have a genetic counseling service for providing appropriate support to oncologists, patients, and families to prevent unnecessary testing; however, breast cancer screening program is incomplete without evaluating for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Linking uterine serous carcinoma to BRCA1/2-associated cancer syndrome: A meta-analysis and case report	Background: Uterine serous carcinoma (USC) shows greater morphological, clinical and molecular similarities to high-grade ovarian tubal serous carcinoma than to other types of endometrial cancer. As high-grade ovarian tubal serous carcinoma is known to be associated with BRCA1/2 pathogenic germline mutations (PMs), we aimed to explore whether USC is also a constituent of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome.Methods: Pubmed, EMBASE and Web of Science were searched in July 2016 for articles assessing the association between USC and germline BRCA1/2-PMs. Pooled analysis and comparisons were performed using a random effects logistic model, stratifying for ethnicity (Ashkenazi versus non-Ashkenazi). In addition, tumour tissue from an USC case with a hereditary BRCAl-PM was analysed for loss of heterozygosity at the BRCA1 locus and was functionally analysed for homologous recombination proficiency.Results: The search yielded 1893 citations, 10 studies were included describing 345 USC patients. For Ashkenazi Jews, the pooled odds ratio of having a germline BRCA1/2-PM was increased in USC patients compared with the general Ashkenazi population: odds ratio 5.4 (95%confidence interval: 2.2-13.1). In the patient with USC, we identified the known germline BRCAl-PM in the tumour DNA. Furthermore, we showed both loss of heterozygosity of the wild-type allele and a deficiency of homologous recombination.Conclusion: This study suggests that USC may be an overlooked component of BRCA1/2-associated hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. Screening for germline BRCA1/2-PMs should be considered in patients diagnosed with USC, especially in cases with a positive first-degree family history for breast and/or ovarian cancer. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	CDC Grand Rounds: Family History and Genomics as Tools for Cancer Prevention and Control		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Annual Meeting of the Association-for-Molecular-Pathology, Charlotte, NC, USA, November 10 -12, 2016	This Association for Molecular Pathology meeting, which focuses on molecular diagnostics and clinical pathology, contains abstracts of approximately 460 papers written in English. Topics include germline and somatic variants, next-generation sequencing assay, inherited cancer, PCR, combined immunodeficiency, T cell lymphopenia, newborn screening, gene expression, cardiac fibrosis, coronary artery disease, gene mutation, chromosomal microarray, genome-wide methylation testing, sequence and copy number alterations, genotyping, internal laboratory variant classification, large genomic rearrangements, gastrointestinal polyposis, hereditary hemochromatosis, inherited polyneuropathy, high-resolution melting, cystic fibrosis and Danor disease.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Evolution of Hereditary Breast Cancer Genetic Services: Are Changes Reflected in the Knowledge and Clinical Practices of Florida Providers?	Aims: We describe practitioner knowledge and practices related to hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) in an evolving landscape of genetic testing. Methods: A survey was mailed in late 2013 to Florida providers who order HBOC testing. Descriptive statistics were conducted to characterize participants' responses. Results: Of 101 respondents, 66% indicated either no genetics education or education through a commercial laboratory. Although 79% of respondents were aware of the Supreme Court ruling resulting in the loss of Myriad Genetics' BRCA gene patent, only 19% had ordered testing from a different laboratory. With regard to pretest counseling, 78% of respondents indicated they usually discuss 11 of 14 nationally recommended elements for informed consent. Pretest discussion times varied from 3 to 120min, with approximately half spending <20min. Elements not routinely covered by >40% of respondents included (1) possibility of a variant of uncertain significance (VUS) and (2) issues related to life/disability insurance. With regard to genetic testing for HBOC, 88% would test an unaffected sister of a breast cancer patient identified with a BRCA VUS. Conclusions: Results highlight the need to identify whether variability in hereditary cancer service delivery impacts patient outcomes. Findings also reveal opportunities to facilitate ongoing outreach and education.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Psychosocial outcomes and counselee satisfaction following genetic counseling for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer: A patient-reported outcome study	Objective: We investigated the psychosocial consequences of genetic counseling and testing (GCT) for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) at follow-up in a "real-life" sample of counselees at an Austrian tertiary care center.Methods: The study cohort included counselees who had undergone genetic counseling for HBOC and completed a follow-up self-report questionnaire battery on psychosocial outcomes (quality of life, psychological distress, satisfaction with counseling and decisions). For comparison of distress, we recruited a reference sample of breast cancer survivors (BCS; n = 665) who had not requested GCT in the same setting.Results: Overall, counselees did not exhibit increased levels of anxiety and depression when compared to BCS. No specific follow-up deleterious psychosocial consequences were detected among the former group. Of the 137 counselees, 22.6% and 9.8% experienced clinically relevant levels of anxiety and depression, respectively, at an average follow-up time of 1.8 years. However, both anxiety and depression significantly decreased with time and were alike between counselees with and without cancer diagnosis. Follow-up cancer worry seems to be significantly higher among counselees who had not undergone genetic testing or were undecided about it than among counselees who had been tested.Conclusion: Our results strongly support GCT as part of routine care for patients with HBOC. The risk factors of increased distress in specific subgroups of counselees, such as recent cancer diagnosis or uncertainty about testing, warrant further exploration and specific attention in clinical routines. Particularly, the psychological needs of undecided counselees warrant ongoing attention and potential follow-ups. (C) 2016 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Analysis of Founder Mutations in Rare Tumors Associated With Hereditary Breast/Ovarian Cancer Reveals a Novel Association of BRCA2 Mutations with Ampulla of Vater Carcinomas	BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations are responsible for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer, but they also confer an increased risk for the development of rarer cancers associated with this syndrome, namely, cancer of the pancreas, male breast, peritoneum, and fallopian tube. The objective of this work was to quantify the contribution of the founder mutations BRCA2 c.156_157insAlu and BRCA1 c.3331_3334del for cancer etiology in unselected hospital-based cohorts of Portuguese patients diagnosed with these rarer cancers, by using a strategy that included testing of archival tumor tissue. A total of 102 male breast, 68 pancreatic and 33 peritoneal/fallopian tube carcinoma cases were included in the study. The BRCA2 c.156_157insAlu mutation was observed with a frequency of 7.8% in male breast cancers, 3.0% in peritoneal/fallopian tube cancers, and 1.6% in pancreatic cancers, with estimated total contributions of germline BRCA2 mutations of 14.3%, 5.5%, and 2.8%, respectively. No carriers of the BRCA1 c.3331_3334del mutation were identified. During our study, a patient with an ampulla of Vater carcinoma was incidentally found to carry the BRCA2 c.156_157insAlu mutation, so we decided to test a consecutive series of additional 15 ampullary carcinomas for BRCA1/BRCA2 mutations using a combination of direct founder mutation testing and full gene analysis with next generation sequencing. BRCA2 mutations were observed with a frequency of 14.3% in ampulla of Vater carcinomas. In conclusion, taking into account the implications for both the individuals and their family members, we recommend that patients with these neoplasias should be offered BRCA1/BRCA2 genetic testing and we here show that it is feasible to test for founder mutations in archival tumor tissue. Furthermore, we identified for the first time a high frequency of germline BRCA2 mutations in ampullary cancers.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	HOXB13 and other high penetrant genes for prostate cancer		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Design and validation of a next generation sequencing assay for hereditary BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation testing	Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, caused by a germline pathogenic variant in the BRCA1 Or BRCA2 (BRCA1/2) genes, is characterized by an increased risk for breast, ovarian, pancreatic and other cancers. Identification of those who have a BRCA1/2 mutation is important so that they can take advantage of genetic counseling, screening, and potentially life-saving prevention strategies. We describe the design and analytic validation of the Counsyl Inherited. Cancer Screen, a next-generation sequencing -based test to detect pathogenic variation the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. We demonstrate that the test is capable of detecting single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) short insertions and deletions (indels), and copy-number variants (CNVs, lalso known as large rearrangements) with zero errors over a 114-sample validation set consisting of samples from cell lines and deidentified patient samples, including 36 samples with BRCA1/2 Pathogenic germline mutations.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Genetic anticipation in BRCA1/BRCA2 families after controlling for ascertainment bias and cohort effect	BACKGROUNDGenetic anticipation, the earlier onset of disease in successive generations, has been reported in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC), but little is known about its underlying mechanisms. Ascertainment bias has been suggested as a reason in previous studies. Likewise, cohort effect, which may be caused by environmental factors, can be misinterpreted as genetic anticipation.METHODSThe authors reviewed the pedigrees of 176 kindreds, segregating those with deleterious mutations in breast cancer genes 1 and 2 (BRCA1/BRCA2) who had at least 2 consecutive generations of the same cancer (breast or ovarian). By using mutation probabilities as analytical weights in weighted random-effect models, generational differences in the age at onset of breast/ovarian cancer were calculated. The analyses were further controlled for ascertainment bias by excluding probands and adjusting for birth-cohort effect in the anticipation models.RESULTSThe mean age at the onset of breast cancer for the probands' generation was 41.9 years, which was 6.8 years and 9.8 years earlier than the parents' and grandparents' generations, respectively. The anticipation effect for breast cancer remained significant after excluding the probands. There was a birth-cohort effect: patients who were born in 1930s and 1940s had breast cancer 5.0 years and 7.6 years earlier than patients who were born before 1920. The difference in breast cancer age of onset across generations was no longer significant after adjusting for birth-cohort effect.CONCLUSIONSThe observed anticipation effect was driven mainly by a decrease in age of onset across birth cohorts, underscoring the need for risk-reducing interventions that target changing environmental/lifestyle factors in BRCA1/BRCA2 carriers. Cancer 2016;122:1913-20. (c) 2016 American Cancer Society.After controlling for potential bias, the study found earlier disease onset in successive generation in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome but this observed anticipation effect was mainly driven by a decrease in age of onset across birth cohorts. This finding suggests that environmental/lifestyle factors rather than genetic changes account for the anticipation effect.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Eligibility Criteria and Genetic Testing Results from a High-Risk Cohort for Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome in Southeastern Ontario	Germline mutations in breast and ovarian cancer are rare, with approximately 5% to 10% and 13% being hereditary in origin, respectively. In 2001, the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long Term Care, in an effort to contain costs, defined criteria to determine an individual's eligibility for BRCA genetic screening. We studied a cohort of individuals that have undergone genetic testing at Kingston General Hospital between 2001 and late 2013. We focused on determining whether the 13 risk criteria, defined by an expert working group for the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long Term Care, have performed according to expectations in this cohort. Our findings show that all of the criteria perform well by identifying carriers at the expected 10% rate defined by the guidelines. We demonstrate that loose application of the risk criteria does not further enrich for BRCA variant carriers. Our assessment of the established risk criteria that have been in use in Ontario for more than a decade, provide evidence for their effectiveness, and offer insights into how they may be expanded or improved.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	BRCA1 and BRCA2 rearrangements in Brazilian individuals with Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome	Approximately 5-10% of breast cancers are caused by germline mutations in high penetrance predisposition genes. Among these, BRCA1 and BRCA2, which are associated with the Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer (HBOC) syndrome, are the most frequently affected genes. Recent studies confirm that gene rearrangements, especially in BRCA1, are responsible for a significant proportion of mutations in certain populations. In this study we determined the prevalence of BRCA rearrangements in 145 unrelated Brazilian individuals at risk for HBOC syndrome who had not been previously tested for BRCA mutations. Using Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA) and a specific PCR-based protocol to identify a Portuguese founder BRCA2 mutation, we identified two (1,4%) individuals with germline BRCA1 rearrangements (c.547+240_5193+178del and c.4675+467_5075-990del) and three probands with the c.156_157insAlu founder BRCA2 rearrangement. Furthermore, two families with false positive MLPA results were shown to carry a deleterious point mutation at the probe binding site. This study comprises the largest Brazilian series of HBOC families tested for BRCA1 and BRCA2 rearrangements to date and includes patients from three regions of the country. The overall observed rearrangement frequency of 3.44% indicates that rearrangements are relatively uncommon in the admixed population of Brazil.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Implementation of BRCA1/2 recurrent mutation genotyping panel in Chinese HBOC patients		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Genetic predisposition for pancreatic cancer and opportunities for early detection		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Managing patients at genetic risk of breast cancer	Hereditary syndromes that increase the risk of breast cancer are not common, but it is critical to recognize and manage them appropriately. This paper reviews the management of patients with the most common hereditary breast cancer syndromes, ie, hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, hereditary diffuse gastric cancer, Cowden syndrome (PTEN hamartoma tumor syndrome), Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, and Li-Fraumeni syndrome.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Tracking of the origin of recurrent mutations of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes in the North-East of Italy and improved mutation analysis strategy	Background: About 20 % of hereditary breast cancers are caused by mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. Since BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations may be spread throughout the gene, genetic testing is usually performed by direct sequencing of entire coding regions. In some populations, especially if relatively isolated, a few number of recurrent mutations is reported, sometimes caused by founder effect.Methods: BRCA1 and BRCA2 screening for mutations was carried out on 1114 breast and/or ovarian cancer patients complying with the eligibility criteria for BRCA testing. Haplotype analysis was performed on the probands carrying recurrent mutations and their relatives, using two sets of microsatellite markers covering the BRCA1 (D17S588, D17S806, D17S902, D17S1325, D17S855, D17S1328, D17S800, and D17S250) and BRCA2 (D13S220, D13S267, D13S171, D13S1701, D13S1698, D13S260, D13S290, D13S1246) loci. The DMLE + 2.2 software was used to estimate the age of BRCA1 c.676delT and BRCA2 c.7806-2A > G. A multiplex PCR and two different primer extension assays were optimized and used for genotyping the recurrent mutations of the two genes.Results: In the time frame of almost 20 years of genetic testing, we have found that five BRCA1 and three BRCA2 mutations are recurrent in a substantial subset of carriers from North-East Italy and neighboring Istria, where they represent more than 50 % of all mutations. Microsatellite analyses identified a common haplotype of different length for each mutation. Age estimation of BRCA1 c.676delT and BRCA2 c.7806-2A > G mutations revealed that they arose in the Friuli Venezia Giulia area about 86 and 94 generations ago, respectively. Suggestion of an association between BRCA2 c.7806-2A > G and risk of breast cancer in males has emerged. Finally, we developed a simple and efficient pre-screeening test, performing an in-house primer extension SNaPshot (R) assay for the rapid identification of the eight recurrent mutations.Conclusions: Proofs of common ancestry has been obtained for the eight recurrent mutations. The observed genotype-phenotype correlation and the proposed rapid mutation detection strategy could improve the clinical management of breast and ovarian patients in North-East of Italy and neighboring geographic areas.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	The Role of Risk-Reducing Surgery in Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer	HEREDITARY BREAST AND OVARIAN CANCER IS A SYNDROME THAT INvolves an increased predisposition to breast cancer, ovarian cancer, or both and an autosomal dominant pattern of transmission. The numbers of breast-cancer diagnoses, the ages of patients at diagnosis, and the occurrence of ovarian cancer in addition to breast cancer vary among families with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. The likelihood of detecting an underlying disease-causing mutation is highest in the most severely affected families, especially those with ovarian cancer. Disease-causing mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2, the genes most often associated with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, are identified in only a minority of families with suspected hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome.Risk-reducing mastectomy and risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy are options for the primary prevention of breast and ovarian cancers, and they have been shown in multiple studies to have efficacy. However, these procedures, which have profound effects on a woman's body, are associated with complex and emotionally charged decision making.In this review, we address issues related to the care of women in families with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome who have not had cancer. We discuss risk assessment for breast and ovarian cancers according to the woman's age, the efficacy of risk-reducing surgery, the complications and psychosocial effects of these procedures, alternative strategies for risk management, and the best ways to facilitate individual decision making.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Incidence of Occult Carcinomas in Fallopian Tubes in High-risk Patients - A Prospective Study from North Shore - LIJ Health System		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Investigating the effect of 28 BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations on their related transcribed mRNA	Germline inactivating mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes are responsible for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOCS). Genetic testing of these genes identifies a significant proportion of variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Elucidation of the clinical impact of these variants is an important challenge in genetic diagnostics and counseling. In this study, we assess the RNA effect of 28 BRCA1 and BRCA2 VUS identified in our set of HBOCS families with the aim of gaining insight into their clinical relevance. mRNA was extracted from VUS carriers and controls lymphocytes cultured for 5-6 days and treated with puromycin. RNA was reverse transcribed to perform transcriptional analysis for the study of splicing aberrations. In silico prediction tools were used to select those variants most likely to affect the RNA splicing process. Six out of the 28 variants analyzed showed an aberrant splicing pattern and could therefore be classified as probably pathogenic mutations. Reclassification of VUS improves the genetic counseling and clinical surveillance of carriers of these mutations and highlights the importance of RNA studies in routine diagnostic laboratories.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	It's Totally Tubular....Riding The New Wave of Ovarian Cancer Research	Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome carries significant mortality for young women if effective preventive and screening measures are not taken. Preventive salpingo-oophorectomy is currently the only method known to reduce the risk of ovarian cancer-related death. Histopathological analyses of these surgical specimens indicate that a high proportion of ovarian cancers in women at high risk and in the general population arise from the fallopian tube. This paradigm shift concerning the cell of origin for the most common subtype of ovarian cancer, highgrade serous carcinoma, has sparked a major effort within the research community to develop new and robust model systems to study the fallopian tube epithelium as the cell of origin of "ovarian" cancer. In this review, evidence supporting the fallopian tube as the origin of ovarian cancer is presented as are novel experimental model systems for studying the fallopian tube epithelium in high-risk women as well as in the general population. This review also addresses the clinical implications of the newly proposed cell of origin, the clinical questions that arise, and novel strategies for ovarian cancer prevention. (C)2015 AACR.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Functional Analysis of BARD1 Missense Variants in Homology-Directed Repair of DNA Double Strand Breaks	Genes associated with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) are often sequenced in search of mutations that are predictive of susceptibility to these cancer types, but the sequence results are frequently ambiguous because of the detection of missense substitutions for which the clinical impact is unknown. The BARD1 protein is the heterodimeric partner of BRCA1 and is included on clinical gene panels for testing for susceptibility to HBOC. Like BRCA1, it is required for homology-directed DNA repair (HDR). We measured the HDR function of 29 BARD1 missense variants, 27 culled from clinical test results and two synthetic variants. Twenty-three of the assayed variants were functional for HDR; of these, four are known neutral variants. Three variants showed intermediate function, and three others were defective in HDR. When mapped to BARD1 domains, residues crucial for HDR were located in the N- and C- termini of BARD1. In the BARD1 RING domain, critical residues mapped to the zinc-coordinating amino acids and to the BRCA1-BARD1 binding interface, highlighting the importance of interaction between BRCA1 and BARD1 for HDR activity. Based on these results, we propose that the HDR assay is a useful complement to genetic analyses to classify BARD1 variants of unknown clinical significance. (C) 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Singapore Cancer Network (SCAN) Guidelines for Referral for Genetic Evaluation of Common Hereditary Cancer Syndromes	Introduction: The SCAN cancer genetics workgroup aimed to develop Singapore Cancer Network (SCAN) clinical practice guidelines for referral for genetic evaluation of common hereditary cancer syndromes. Materials and Methods: The workgroup utilised a modified ADAPTE process to calibrate high quality international evidence-based clinical practice guidelines to our local setting. Results: To formulate referral guidelines for the 3 most commonly encountered hereditary cancer syndromes to guide healthcare providers in Singapore who care for cancer patients and/or their family members, 7, 5, and 3 sets of international guidelines respectively for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) syndrome, Lynch syndrome (LS), and familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) were evaluated. For each syndrome, the most applicable one was selected, with modifications made such that they would be appropriate to the local context. Conclusion: These adapted guidelines form the SCAN Guidelines 2015 for referral for genetic evaluation of common hereditary cancer syndromes.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	AGO Austria recommendations for genetic testing of patients with ovarian cancer	In Austria, 700 women are diagnosed every year with ovarian carcinoma. Approximately 15 % of the patients with epithelial ovarian cancer have a germline mutation in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes. The increased incidence of breast and/or ovarian cancer in genetically related family members has given rise to the term "hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome" (HBOC). Some 25-55 % of these in-family diseases are attributed to germline mutations of BRCA1 or BRCA2, and approximately 5-10 % to other known tumor predisposition syndromes. The remaining persons may carry mutations in as yet unidentified genes. HBOC caused by BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations is an autosomal dominant disorder with high penetrance. BRCA1 and BRCA2 encode for so-called tumor suppressor proteins. Inherited functional mutations of these genes cause loss of function of the respective allele. Loss of function of the second allele causes complete loss of the corresponding protein and facilitates the development of a malignancy.The Association of Gynecologic Oncology recommends that testing for a germline mutation in BRCA1 or BRCA2 should be offered to all patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. When mutations in BRCA1, BRCA2, or other cancer-susceptibility genes have been identified, patients with ovarian carcinoma can be treated with new, innovative therapies. This recommendation is intended as a standard guideline for genetic testing of patients with an ovarian carcinoma.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	HBOC multi-gene panel testing: comparison of two sequencing centers	Multi-gene panels are used to identify genetic causes of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) in large patient cohorts. This study compares the diagnostic workflow in two centers and gives valuable insights into different next-generation sequencing (NGS) strategies. Moreover, we present data from 620 patients sequenced at both centers. Both sequencing centers are part of the German consortium for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (GC-HBOC). All 620 patients included in this study were selected following standard BRCA1/2 testing guidelines. A set of 10 sequenced genes was analyzed per patient. Twelve samples were exchanged and sequenced at both centers. NGS results were highly concordant in 12 exchanged samples (205/206 variants = 99.51 %). One non-pathogenic variant was missed at center B due to a sequencing gap (no technical coverage). The custom enrichment at center B was optimized during this study; for example, the average number of missing bases was reduced by a factor of four (vers. 1: 1939.41, vers. 4: 506.01 bp). There were no sequencing gaps at center A, but four CCDS exons were not included in the enrichment. Pathogenic mutations were found in 12.10 % (75/620) of all patients: 4.84 % (30/620) in BRCA1, 4.35 % in BRCA2 (27/620), 0.97 % in CHEK2 (6/620), 0.65 % in ATM (4/620), 0.48 % in CDH1 (3/620), 0.32 % in PALB2 (2/620), 0.32 % in NBN (2/620), and 0.16 % in TP53 (1/620). NGS diagnostics for HBOC-related genes is robust, cost effective, and the method of choice for genetic testing in large cohorts. Adding 8 genes to standard BRCA1- and BRCA2-testing increased the mutation detection rate by one-third.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	BRCA Mutations Increase Fertility in Families at Hereditary Breast/Ovarian Cancer Risk	BackgroundDeleterious mutations in the BRCA genes are responsible for a small, but significant, proportion of breast and ovarian cancers (5 - 10 %). Proof of de novo mutations in hereditary breast/ovarian cancer (HBOC) families is rare, in contrast to founder mutations, thousands of years old, that may be carried by as much as 1% of a population. Thus, if mutations favoring cancer survive selection pressure through time, they must provide advantages that compensate for the loss of life expectancy.MethodThis hypothesis was tested within 2,150 HBOC families encompassing 96,325 individuals. Parameters included counts of breast/ovarian cancer, age at diagnosis, male breast cancer and other cancer locations. As expected, well-known clinical parameters discriminated between BRCA-mutated families and others: young age at breast cancer, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer and male breast cancer. The major fertility differences concerned men in BRCA-mutated families: they had lower first and mean age at paternity, and fewer remained childless. For women in BRCA families, the miscarriage rate was lower. In a logistic regression including clinical factors, the different miscarriage rate and men's mean age at paternity remained significant.ResultsFertility advantages were confirmed in a subgroup of 746 BRCA mutation carriers and 483 non-carriers from BRCA mutated families. In particular, female carriers were less often nulliparous (9.1 % of carriers versus 16.0 %, p = 0.003) and had more children (1.8 +/- 1.4 SD versus 1.5 +/- 1.3, p = 0.002) as well as male carriers (1.7 +/- 1.3 versus 1.4 +/- 1.3, p = 0.024).ConclusionAlthough BRCA mutations shorten the reproductive period due to cancer mortality, they compensate by improving fertility both in male and female carriers.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Hereditary Cancer Syndromes and Risk Assessment	A hereditary cancer syndrome is a genetic predisposition to certain types of cancer, often with onset at an early age, caused by inherited mutations in one or more genes. Cases of cancer commonly encountered by obstetrician-gynecologists or other obstetric-gynecologic providers-such as breast cancer, ovarian cancer, and endometrial cancer-are features of specific hereditary cancer syndromes. The most common hereditary cancer syndromes related to gynecologic cancer include hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, Lynch syndrome, Li-Fraumeni syndrome, Cowden syndrome, and Peutz-Jeghers syndrome. A hereditary cancer risk assessment is the key to identifying patients and families who may be at increased risk of developing certain types of cancer. Screening should include, at minimum, a personal cancer history and a first-and second-degree relative cancer history that includes a description of the type of primary cancer, the age of onset, and the lineage (paternal versus maternal) of the family member. In addition, a patient's ethnic background can influence her genetic risk. If a hereditary cancer risk assessment suggests an increased risk of a hereditary cancer syndrome, referral to a specialist in cancer genetics or a health care provider with expertise in genetics is recommended for expanded gathering of family history information, risk assessment, education, and counseling, which may lead to genetic testing.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	BRCA1/2 founder mutations among high-risk HBOC patients from Northeast of Brazil		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Spectrum of mutations identified in a 25-gene hereditary cancer panel for patients with breast cancer		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Mutational analysis of BRCA1/2 in a group of 134 consecutive ovarian cancer patients. Novel and recurrent BRCA1/2 alterations detected by next generation sequencing	The importance of proper mutational analysis of BRCA1/2 in individuals at risk for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome is widely accepted. Standard genetic screening includes targeted analysis of recurrent, population-specific mutations. The purpose of the study was to establish the frequency of germline BRCA1/2 mutations in a group of 134 unrelated patients with primary ovarian cancer. Next generation sequencing analysis revealed a presence of 20 (14.9 %) mutations, where 65 % (n = 13) were recurrent BRCA1 alterations included in the standard diagnostic panel in northern Poland. However, the remaining seven BRCA1/2 mutations (35 %) would be missed by the standard approach and were detected in unique patients. A substantial proportion (n = 5/12; 41 %) of mutation-positive individuals with complete family history reported no incidence of breast or ovarian cancer in their relatives. This observation, together with the raising perspectives for personalized therapy targeting BRCA1/2 signaling pathways indicates the necessity of comprehensive genetic screening in all ovarian cancer patients. However, due to the limited sensitivity of the standard genetic screening presented in this study (65 %) an application of next generation sequencing in molecular diagnostics of BRCA1/2 genes should be considered.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	RETRACTION: Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome (Retraction of Vol 130, Pg E 110, 2017)		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Germline TP53 mutational spectrum in French Canadians with breast cancer	Background: Specific germline mutations in the hereditary breast-ovarian cancer susceptibility (HBC/HBOC) genes, BRCA1, BRCA2 and PALB2, have been shown to recur in French Canadians of Quebec, Canada, and this has been attributed to common ancestors. Germline TP53 mutation carriers are known to segregate in Li-Fraumeni syndrome families, which feature young age of onset breast cancer. We have reported rare TP53 mutation carriers in French Canadian HBC families, though none recurred possibly due to the limited number of cancer families investigated. Here we describe TP53 germline mutations found in French Canadian cancer families provided from hereditary cancer clinics; investigate 37 new BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation-negative HBC/HBOC families for the TP53 mutations; and assess the frequency of TP53 mutations in a 1235 French Canadian breast cancer cases not selected for family history of cancer.Methods: TP53 mutation-positive pedigrees from French Canadian cancer families were provided from local hereditary cancer clinics. Bidirectional Sanger sequencing of all protein encoding exons of TP53 was performed using peripheral blood lymphocyte DNA from breast/ovarian cancer probands from 37 HBC/HBOC families of French Canadian descent. Targeted bidirectional Sanger sequencing assay of regions containing the identified TP53 mutations was performed on 1235 French Canadian breast cancer cases not selected for family history cancer.Results: Five new TP53 mutations were identified in six pedigrees from hereditary cancer clinics. No deleterious mutations were identified in cancer probands from 37 HBC/HBOC families. A targeted mutation screen of the 1235 breast cancer cases identified a c.844C>T [p.Arg282Trp] mutation carrier. This mutation was also found among the six mutation-positive cancer families provided by the local hereditary cancer clinics. The targeted screen also uncovered a new TP53 mutation, c.685T>C [p.Cys229Arg] that was found in two breast cancer cases. All TP53 mutation carriers were among the 656 women with breast cancer diagnosed less than 50 years of age.Conclusions: In all six new TP53 mutations were identified in French Canadians, where two each occurred in independently ascertained cases/families. Although all newly identified breast cancer mutation carriers reported a family history of cancer, none were consistent with features of Li-Fraumeni syndrome families.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Comparison of Pathogenic APC and Biallelic MUTYH Mutations Between Ashkenazi Jews and Non-Ashkenazi Jews With Colorectal Adenomas	Background: Evaluating the outcomes of genetic testing in ethnic populations has enabled the development of high-yield test panels. Among Ashkenazi Jews, there are three founder mutations that occur frequently in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. This mutation panel is often the initial genetic test in persons of Ashkenazi descent being evaluated for Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer syndrome. To explore this in polyposis, we compared the frequency of APC and MUTYH alterations between Ashkenazi Jews (AJ) and non-Ashkenazi Jews (NAJ) with colorectal adenomas. Methods: A cross-sectional study conducted in 5236 subjects with colorectal adenomas who underwent full gene sequencing and large rearrangement analysis of the APC gene and DNA sequence analysis for the two common Caucasian MUTYH mutations (p.Y165C, p.G382D). Individuals with either mutation had subsequent MUTYH full sequencing. We compared the prevalence of pathogenic APC and MUTYH mutations by adenoma count in AJ and NAJ and evaluated the phenotype of APC*I1307K carriers using multivariable logistic regression analysis controlling for age, gender, adenoma count and family history of colorectal cancer (CRC). Results: Pathogenic APC mutations were found in 22/208 AJ (10.6%) and 983/5028 NAJ (19.6%; p=0.0008) and biallelic MUTYH mutations in 1 (0.5%) AJ and 286 (5.7%) NAJ (p=0.0001). The prevalence of pathogenic APC or MUTYH mutations was 10/23 (43.5%) and 745/1139 (65.4%) in subjects with >= 100 adenomas (p=0.04), 10/98 (10.2%) and 414/2379 (17.4%) with 20-99 adenomas (p=0.07), 3/40 (7.5%) and 58/686 (8.5%) with 10 - 19 adenomas (p=1) and 0/47 (0%) and 52/824 (6.3%) with 1-9 adenomas (p=0.11), in AJ and NAJ respectively. In AJ, the R332X alteration in the APC gene was the most common pathogenic mutation and was present in 6/22 (27.2%) AJ compared to 17/983 (1.7%) NAJ (p=0.0001). The I1307K variant occurred in 32 (15.4%) AJ and 22 (0.5%) NAJ (p=0.0001); among AJ this variant was significantly associated with a diagnosis of CRC (OR: 2.6 [95% CI: 1.1-5.8]). Conclusion: Overall, the frequency of pathogenic APC or MUTYH mutations increases with adenoma count and is lower in AJ compared to NAJ. The low yield of comprehensive MUTYH testing in AJ suggests this gene plays a small role in AJ with polyposis and that other genes may be responsible for the polyposis phenotype in Ashkenazim. The higher prevalence of the APC*R332X mutation in AJ compared to NAJ suggests R332X may be a founder mutation. This should be further explored through haplotype analysis. Finally, we propose that increased colorectal screening be considered in Ashkenazim who have the I1307K variant and report a personal history of colorectal adenomas.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Incidental Nonuterine High-grade Serous Carcinomas Arise in the Fallopian Tube in Most Cases Further Evidence for the Tubal Origin of High-grade Serous Carcinomas	Most nonuterine high-grade serous carcinomas (HGSCs) in women with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, due to germline BRCA1/2 mutation, arise in the fimbria of the fallopian tube. However, the site of origin of sporadic HGSC, which is usually widely disseminated at presentation, is not well established. We sought to characterize cases of HGSC discovered incidentally in patients not known to be at high risk, in order to determine the site distribution and possible origin of sporadic HGSC. Incidental microscopic, non-mass-forming cases of serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma or HGSC in salpingo-oophorectomy specimens in which the tubes and ovaries had been extensively examined were identified. No patients were known or suspected BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. Twenty-one cases were identified (mean age: 57 y). Surgery was for benign disease (n = 15), uterine endometrioid adenocarcinoma or atypical hyperplasia (n = 3), bladder carcinoma (n = 1), or ovarian serous borderline tumor (n = 2). In 16 of 21 cases, the lesion was confined to the fallopian tube (unilateral in 14 cases, bilateral in 2). There was serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma in all cases and invasive HGSC into the underlying lamina propria in 8 of these 16 cases; the invasive focus measured 1.3 cm or less in every case. In the remaining 5 cases, there was fallopian tube mucosal and ovarian involvement; in 2 of these cases, there was also microscopic peritoneal involvement. Sporadic cases of nonuterine HGSC arise in the fallopian tube fimbria in a large majority of cases, providing further evidence for the tubal origin of these neoplasms.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Hereditary Cancer-Associated Mutations in Women Diagnosed with Two Primary Cancers: An Opportunity to Identify Hereditary Cancer Syndromes after the First Cancer Diagnosis	Objectives: Patients with hereditary cancer syndromes are at high risk for a second primary cancer. Early identification of these patients after an initial cancer diagnosis is the key to implementing cancer risk-reducing strategies.Methods: A commercial laboratory database was searched for women with a history of both breast and ovarian or colorectal and endometrial cancer who underwent genetic testing for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) or Lynch syndrome (LS).Results: Among women with both breast and ovarian cancer, 22.4% (2,237/9,982) had a BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation. Among women with both colorectal and ovarian cancer, 28.1% (264/941) had a mutation associated with LS. In 66.6% of BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation carriers and in 58.3% of LS mutation carriers, >5 years passed between the cancer diagnoses. Of patients with HBOC and LS, 56 and 65.2%, respectively, met the National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for hereditary cancer testing after their initial diagnosis based on their personal cancer history alone.Conclusions: A substantial number of women tested for LS or HBOC after being diagnosed with two successive primary cancers were diagnosed with a hereditary cancer syndrome. In many cases, the time interval between the diagnoses was long enough to allow for the implementation of surveillance and/or prophylactic measures.(C) 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Incidence of BRCA1 and BRCA2 non-founder mutations in patients of Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry	An estimated 1:40 individuals of Ashkenazi Jewish (AJ) ancestry carry one of three common founder mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2, resulting in the inherited cancer condition, Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer (HBOC) syndrome. Targeted testing for these three mutations (BRCA1 187delAG, BRCA1 5385insC, and BRCA2 6174delT) is therefore recommended for all AJ breast and ovarian cancer patients, regardless of age of diagnosis or family history. Comprehensive analysis of both genes is recommended for a subset of AJ patients in whom founder mutations are not identified, but estimates of the yield from comprehensive analysis in this population vary widely. We sought to determine the proportion of non-founder mutations as a percentage of all mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 among AJ patients to inform decisions about HBOC testing strategies in this population. We analyzed the genetic testing results for 37,952 AJ patients for whom clinical testing of BRCA1 and BRCA2 was performed at Myriad Genetic Laboratories from January 2006 through August 2013. Analysis was limited to AJ-only patients for whom the initial test order was either (1) comprehensive testing, or (2) founder mutation testing with instructions to automatically "reflex" to comprehensive analysis if negative. Cases were excluded if a separate follow-up order was placed to reflex to comprehensive analysis only after the founder mutation testing was reported out as negative. Among all BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations detected in these groups, the percentage of non-founder mutations was 13 % (104/802) and 7.2 % (198/2,769). One-hundred and eighty-nine unique non-founder mutations were detected, 76 in BRCA1 and 113 in BRCA2. Non-founder mutations make up between 7.2 and 13.0 % of all BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in Ashkenazi Jews. A wide range of mutations are present, most of which are also seen in non-AJ individuals.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Risk factors for pancreatic cancer: underlying mechanisms and potential targets		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	The changing landscape of genetic testing for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Identifying hereditary cancer: Genetic counseling and cancer risk assessment		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome: Considering the complexities		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Beyond BRCA1 and BRCA2		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	"I Do Not Want My Baby to Suffer as I Did"; Prenatal and Preimplantation Genetic Diagnosis for BRCA1/2 Mutations: A Case Report and Genetic Counseling Considerations	This article presents the complexity of prenatal genetic diagnosis and preimplantation genetic diagnosis for hereditary breast-ovarian cancer syndrome. These issues are discussed using a case report to highlight the genetic counseling process, together with decision-making considerations, in light of the clinical, psychological, and ethical perspectives, of both the mutation carriers and health professionals; and the health policy regarding these procedures in Israel compared to several European countries.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Early Detection of High-grade Tubal Serous Carcinoma in Women at Low Risk for Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome by Systematic Examination of Fallopian Tubes Incidentally Removed During Benign Surgery	Early detection of sporadic pelvic serous carcinoma remains an elusive goal. In women at high risk for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome who undergo prophylactic salpingectomy, systematic pathologic examination of the fallopian tubes will detect occult tubal cancer, mostly in the fimbriae, of a minority of women. Such tubal cancers are the putative precursor to advanced-stage pelvic cancer. We hypothesized that early tubal cancer detection can also be accomplished in women at low risk using a similar approach. In this study, we performed complete and systematic examination of the fallopian tubes removed during surgery performed for benign indications. Among 522 women, 4 cases of serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma (STIC) were identified. Three of these cases would have gone undetected using the current standard of care of sampling only a single random section of the tube. The fourth case was accompanied by occult ovarian carcinoma. The fimbriae contained STIC in 3 of the 4 cases and atypical mucosa in 1 case in which the STIC was in the nonfimbriated portion of the tube. The morphologic and immunohistochemical features (aberrant p53 and MIB-1) of these STICs were similar to those expected in high-risk women. All 4 patients with STIC underwent BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene testing; no germline mutations were identified in any patient. An additional 11 specimens contained atypical mucosal proliferations that fell short of morphologic and immunohistochemical criteria for STIC. Two of these 11 fulfilled criteria for a serous tubal intraepithelial lesion, and the remaining atypical proliferations exhibited normal p53 and MIB-1. For most specimens, the fimbriae could be completely submitted in 1 or 2 cassettes per tube. These results demonstrate that systematic examination of the tubal fimbriae can serve as a form of early detection of sporadic tubal cancer without incurring significant labor or cost. We propose that the tubal fimbriae should be completely examined in all patients undergoing benign surgery even if there are no clinical features to suggest risk for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Serous Tubal Intraepithelial Carcinoma in a Japanese Woman with a Deleterious BRCA1 Mutation	Risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy for reducing future cancer risk in women with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome is rarely performed in Japan; therefore, the cancer preventive effect of risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome among the Japanese population remains unclear. Here, we report the first case of serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma identified through a risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy in a Japanese woman with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome and who had a deleterious germline mutation of E1214X in BRCA1, but not a BRCA2 mutation. A pre-operative examination revealed multiple uterine leiomyomas but no adnexal mass. Robotic-assisted bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy together with hysterectomy was performed. A pathological examination identified serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma in the right fallopian tube with no dissemination. Serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma is implicated as an origin of invasive cancer of the fallopian tube with peritoneal dissemination; prophylactic salpingo-oophorectomy is currently the only method to identify this occult cancer. Our case demonstrated that risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy can detect occult cancers, including serous tubal intraepithelial carcinoma, thereby preventing future cancer development in the Japanese hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome population.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists Practice Bulletins: Ascertaining Their Citation, Influence, and Utilization	Objective To ascertain the influence and utilization of the American College Obstetricians and Gynecologists practice bulletins (PBs) by measuring their citations in three different search tools.Study Design PBs in obstetrics (OB-PBs) and gynecology (GYN-PBs) published from September 1998 to December 2009 were identified. PubMed, Ovid MEDLINE, and Web of Science were utilized to determine how often PBs were cited. The citations were quantified by three parameters, most citations, highest citation rate, and highest impact factor.Results The OB-PB with the most citations (125) was PB no. 33 (Diagnosis and Management of Preeclampsia and Eclampsia), highest citation rate (44) was PB no. 101 (Ultrasonography in Pregnancy), highest OBGYN impact factor (4.39) was PB no. 71 (Episiotomy), and highest non-OBGYN impact factor (53.49) was PB no. 38 (Perinatal Care at Threshold of Viability). The GYN-PB with the highest citation rate (103) was PB no. 109 (Cervical Cytology Screening), highest OBGYN impact factor (3.85) was PB no. 103 (Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome), and highest non-OBGYN impact factor (20.89) was PB no. 35 (Cervical Carcinoma).Conclusions No one PB had the most citations, highest citation rate, and highest impact factor.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Decision-making on preimplantation genetic diagnosis and prenatal diagnosis: a challenge for couples with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer	How do couples with a BRCA1/2 mutation decide on preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) and prenatal diagnosis (PND) for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC)?BRCA couples primarily classify PGD and/or PND as reproductive options based on the perceived severity of HBOC and moral considerations, and consequently weigh the few important advantages of PGD against numerous smaller disadvantages.Awareness of PGD is generally low among persons at high risk for hereditary cancers. Most persons with HBOC are in favour of offering PGD for BRCA1/2 mutations, although only a minority would consider this option for themselves. Studies exploring the motivations for using or refraining from PGD among well-informed BRCA carriers of reproductive age are lacking. We studied the reproductive decision-making process by interviewing a group of well-informed, reproductive aged couples carrying a BRCA1/2 mutation, regarding their decisional motives and considerations.This exploratory, qualitative study investigated the motives and considerations taken into account by couples with a BRCA1/2 mutation and who have received extensive counselling on PGD and PND and have made a well-informed decision regarding this option. Eighteen couples took part in focus group and dyadic interviews between January and September 2012.Semi-structured focus groups were conducted containing two to four couples, assembled based on the reproductive method the couple had chosen: PGD (n 6 couples) or conception without testing (n 8 couples). Couples who had chosen PND for BRCA (n 4) were interviewed dyadically. Two of the women, of whom one had chosen PND and the other had chosen no testing, had a history of breast cancer.None of the couples who opted for PGD or conception without testing found the use of PND, with possible pregnancy termination, acceptable. PND users chose this method because of decisive, mainly practical reasons (natural conception, high chance of favourable outcome). Motives and considerations regarding PGD largely overlapped between PGD users, PND users and non-users, all mentioning some significant advantages (e.g. protecting the child and family from the mutation) and many smaller disadvantages (e.g. the necessity of in vitro fertilization (IVF), low chance of pregnancy by IVF/PGD). For female carriers, the safety of hormonal stimulation and the time required for PGD before undergoing preventive surgeries were important factors in the decision. Non-users expressed doubts about the moral justness of their decision afterwards and emphasized the impact the decision still had on their lives.The interviewed couples were at different stages in their chosen trajectory, up to 3 years after completion. This may have led to recall bias of original motives and considerations. Couples who did not actively seek information about PGD were excluded. Therefore the results may not be readily generalizable to all BRCA couples.The perceived severity of HBOC and, for female carriers, the safety of hormonal stimulation and the time frames for PGD planning before preventive surgeries are essential items BRCA couples consider in reproductive decision-making. The emotional impact of this decision should not be underestimated; especially non-users may experience feelings of doubt or guilt up to several years afterwards. PGD counselling with tailored information addressing these items and decisional support in order to guarantee well-informed decision-making is needed.This study was funded by the Dutch breast cancer foundation Stichting Pink Ribbon, grant number 2010.PS11.C74. None of the authors have competing interests to declare.Not applicable.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	A Novel Splice Site Mutation in the Noncoding Region of BRCA2: Implications for Fanconi Anemia and Familial Breast Cancer Diagnostics	Fanconi anemia (FA) is a rare recessive disorder with chromosomal instability, congenital abnormalities, and a high cancer risk. The breast cancer susceptibility gene BRCA2 (FANCD1) is one of the 16 genes involved in this recessive disease. We have identified a novel mutation of the splice donor site of intron 1 in the noncoding region of BRCA2 in a Japanese FA family. This mutation may account for the FA phenotype in a patient originally reported to have biallelic mutations in BRCA2. Subsequent functional studies revealed that one of the mutations, K2729N, was a neutral change. As reported here, a more careful analysis resulted in the identification of a novel splice site mutation. Functional analysis using a mouse embryonic stem cell-based assay revealed that it causes aberrant splicing, reduced transcript levels and hypersensitivity to DNA damaging agents, suggesting that it is likely to be pathogenic. Although similar pathogenic variants in the noncoding region of BRCA1 and 2 were not identified in a cohort of 752 familial breast cancer cases, we still think this finding is relevant for mutation analysis in Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome families in a diagnostic setting.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Experiences of predictive testing in young people at risk of Huntington's disease, familial cardiomyopathy or hereditary breast and ovarian cancer	While debate has focused on whether testing of minors for late onset genetic disorders should be carried out if there is no medical benefit, less is known about the impact on young people (<25 years) who have had predictive testing often many years before the likely onset of symptoms. We looked at the experiences of young people who had had predictive testing for a range of conditions with variable ages at onset and options for screening and treatment. A consecutive series of 61 young people who had a predictive test aged 15-25 years at the Clinical Genetic Service, Manchester, for HD, HBOC (BrCa 1 or 2) or FCM (Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy or Dilated Cardiomyopathy), were invited to participate. Thirty-six (36/61; 59%) agreed to participate (10 HD, 16 HBOC and 10 FCM) and telephone interviews were audiotaped, transcribed and analysed using Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis. None of the participants expressed regret at having the test at a young age. Participants saw the value of pretest counselling not in facilitating a decision, but rather as a source of information and support. Differences emerged among the three groups in parent/family involvement in the decision to be tested. Parents in FCM families were a strong influence in favour of testing, in HBOC the decision was autonomous but usually congruent with the views of parents, whereas in HD the decision was autonomous and sometimes went against the opinions of parents/grandparents. Participants from all three groups proposed more tailoring of predictive test counselling to the needs of young people.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Characterization of an Italian Founder Mutation in the RING-Finger Domain of BRCA1	The identification of founder mutations in cancer predisposing genes is important to improve risk assessment in geographically defined populations, since it may provide specific targets resulting in cost-effective genetic testing. Here, we report the characterization of the BRCA1 c. 190T>C (p. Cys64Arg) mutation, mapped to the RING-finger domain coding region, that we detected in 43 hereditary breast/ovarian cancer (HBOC) families, for the large part originating from the province of Bergamo (Northern Italy). Haplotype analysis was performed in 21 families, and led to the identification of a shared haplotype extending over three BRCA1-associated marker loci (0.4 cM). Using the DMLE+2.2 software program and regional population demographic data, we were able to estimate the age of the mutation to vary between 3,100 and 3,350 years old. Functional characterization of the mutation was carried out at both transcript and protein level. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis on lymphoblastoid cells revealed expression of full length mRNA from the mutant allele. A green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fragment reassembly assay showed that the p. Cys64Arg substitution prevents the binding of the BRCA1 protein to the interacting protein BARD1, in a similar way as proven deleterious mutations in the RING-domain. Overall, 55 of 83 (66%) female mutation carriers had a diagnosis of breast and/or ovarian cancer. Our observations indicate that the BRCA1 c. 190T>C is a pathogenic founder mutation present in the Italian population. Further analyses will evaluate whether screening for this mutation can be suggested as an effective strategy for the rapid identification of at-risk individuals in the Bergamo area.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Ovarian Neoplasia Associated with Lynch Syndrome Is of Non-Serous Histotypes		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Influence of estrogen and variations at the BRCA1 promoter region on transcription and translation	We analyzed wild-type (WT) and four sequence variants of the BRCA1 promoter region-found in patients selected for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome-in respect to their influence on transcription and translation efficiencies in transient transfection assays in the presence or absence of estrogen. Five types of plasmids containing the EGFP reporter gene proceeded by WT 5'UTR-a, WT 5'UTR-b, and the three 5'UTR-b variants were constructed to evaluate their influence on translation. Plasmids containing the firefly luciferase reporter gene were constructed with the WT BRCA1 promoter region (containing promoter alpha, 5'UTR-a, promoter beta, and 5'UTR-b) and with the four promoter variants for evaluating their influence on transcription and translation. All constructs were transfected in MCF7 cells maintained with and without estrogen. Expression of EGFP plasmids with WT 5'UTR-a was six to sevenfold higher than of plasmids with WT 5'UTR-b, expression of WT and the three variant 5'UTR-b plasmids showed slight differences in EGFP expression, and the presence or absence of estrogen result in non-significant changes in expression. Promoter's constructs that carry the variants WT or g.3988C showed a higher firefly luciferase activity when estrogen is present; conversely, no significant differences were found in the transcription efficiency of the reporter gene indicating that estrogen affect the translation rather than transcription. The presence or absence of estrogen did not affect the activity of firefly luciferase for constructs with the other promoter variants, being the transcription efficiencies equivalent in both conditions.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	A High-Throughput Functional Complementation Assay for Classification of BRCA1 Missense Variants	Mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 account for the majority of hereditary breast and ovarian cancers, and therefore sequence analysis of both genes is routinely conducted in patients with early-onset breast cancer. Besides mutations that clearly abolish protein function or are known to increase cancer risk, a large number of sequence variants of uncertain significance (VUS) have been identified. Although several functional assays for BRCA1 VUSs have been described, thus far it has not been possible to conduct a high-throughput analysis in the context of the full-length protein. We have developed a relatively fast and easy cDNA-based functional assay to classify BRCA1 VUSs based on their ability to functionally complement BRCA1-deficient mouse embryonic stem cells. Using this assay, we have analyzed 74 unclassified BRCA1 missense mutants for which all predicted pathogenic variants are confined to the BRCA1 RING and BRCT domains.SIGNIFICANCE: BRCA1 VUSs are frequently found in patients with hereditary breast or ovarian cancer and present a serious problem for clinical geneticists. This article describes the generation, validation, and application of a reliable high-throughput assay for the functional classification of BRCA1 sequence variants of uncertain significance. (C) 2013 AACR.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer susceptibility genes	Women with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) syndrome represent a unique group who are diagnosed at a younger age and result in an increased lifetime risk for developing breast, ovarian and other cancers. This review integrates recent progress and insights into the molecular basis that underlie the HBOC syndrome. A review of English language literature was performed by searching MEDLINE published between January 1994 and October 2012. Mutations and common sequence variants in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 (BRCA) genes are responsible for the majority of HBOC syndrome. Lifetime cancer risks in BRCA mutation carriers are 60-80% for breast cancer and 20-40% for ovarian cancer. Mutations in BRCA genes cannot account for all cases of HBOC, indicating that the remaining cases can be attributed to the involvement of constitutive epimutations or other cancer susceptibility genes, which include Fanconi anemia (FA) cluster (FANCD2, FANCA and FANCC), mismatch repair (MMR) cluster (MLH1, MSH2, PMS1, PMS2 and MSH6), DNA repair cluster (ATM, ATR and CHK1/2), and tumor suppressor cluster (TP53, SKT11 and PTEN). Sporadic breast cancers with TP53 mutations or epigenetic silencing (hypermethylation), ER-and PgR-negative status, an earlier age of onset and high tumor grade resemble phenotypically BRCA1 mutated cancers termed 'BRCAness', those with no BRCA mutations but with a dysfunction of the DNA repair system. In conclusion, genetic or epigenetic loss-of-function mutations of genes that are known to be involved in the repair of DNA damage may lead to increased risk of developing a broad spectrum of breast and ovarian cancers.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Lack of referral for genetic counseling and testing in BRCA1/2 and Lynch syndromes: a nationwide study based on 240,134 consultations and 134,652 genetic tests	Based on nationwide data from the French national cancer institute (INCa), we analyzed the evolution of cancer genetics consultations and testing over time, and the uptake of targeted tests in relatives of families with BRCA1/2 or MMR genes mutation. Genetic testing and consultations for familial high-risk individuals are exclusively funded and monitored by the INCa in France. All nationwide cancer genetics centers reported annually standardized parameters of activity from 2003 to 2011. The analysis included a total of 240,134 consultations and 134,652 genetic tests enabling to identify 32,494 mutation carriers. Referral for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) or colorectal cancer predisposition syndromes represented 59 % (141,639) and 23.2 % (55,698) consultations, respectively. From 2003 to 2011, we found a dramatic and steady increase of tests performed for BRCA1/2 (from 2,095 to 7,393 tests/year, P < 0.0001) but not for MMR genes (from 1,144 to 1,635/year, P = NS). The overall percentage of deleterious mutations identified in the probands tested was 13.8 and 20.9 % in HBOC and Lynch syndromes, respectively. Pooled analysis for BRCA1/2 and Lynch syndrome tests showed an inverse relationship between the percentage of mutation detected and the absolute number of tests performed over the time (overall Cochran-Armitage test for trend: P < 0.001). In families with BRCA1/2 or MMR identified mutations, there was an average number of 2.94 and 3.28 relatives performing targeted tests, respectively. This nationwide study shows a lack of referral and genetic testing in Lynch as compared to HBOC syndromes. Only a third of relatives of a proband with a predisposing mutation performed a targeted test. Enhanced information about benefit of genetic testing should be given to clinicians and patients for Lynch syndrome and relatives of a proband carrying an identified predisposing mutation.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Next-generation sequencing meets genetic diagnostics: development of a comprehensive workflow for the analysis of BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes	Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is changing genetic diagnosis due to its huge sequencing capacity and cost-effectiveness. The aim of this study was to develop an NGS-based workflow for routine diagnostics for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOCS), to improve genetic testing for BRCA1 and BRCA2. A NGS-based workflow was designed using BRCA MASTR kit amplicon libraries followed by GS Junior pyrosequencing. Data analysis combined Variant Identification Pipeline freely available software and ad hoc R scripts, including a cascade of filters to generate coverage and variant calling reports. A BRCA homopolymer assay was performed in parallel. A research scheme was designed in two parts. A Training Set of 28 DNA samples containing 23 unique pathogenic mutations and 213 other variants (33 unique) was used. The workflow was validated in a set of 14 samples from HBOCS families in parallel with the current diagnostic workflow (Validation Set). The NGS-based workflow developed permitted the identification of all pathogenic mutations and genetic variants, including those located in or close to homopolymers. The use of NGS for detecting copy-number alterations was also investigated. The workflow meets the sensitivity and specificity requirements for the genetic diagnosis of HBOCS and improves on the cost-effectiveness of current approaches.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	A New Rapid Methodological Strategy to Assess BRCA Mutational Status	Hereditary cancers account for approximately 10 % of breast and ovarian cancers. Mutations of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, encoding two proteins involved in DNA repair, underlie most cases of such hereditary cancers. Women with BRCA mutations develop breast cancer in 50-80 % of cases and ovarian cancer in 10-40 % of cases. Assessing BRCA mutational status is needed to direct the clinical management of women with predisposition to these hereditary cancers. However, BRCA screening constitutes a bottleneck in terms of costs and time to deliver results. We developed a PCR-based assay using 73 primer pairs covering the entire coding regions of BRCA1 and BRCA2. PCR primers, containing at the 5' end the universal M13 primer sequences, were pre-spotted in 96-well plates. Following PCR, direct sequencing was performed using M13 primers, allowing to standardize the conditions. PCR amplification and sequencing were successful for each amplicon. We tested and validated the assay on 10 known gDNAs from patients with Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC). Our strategy is a promising time and cost-effective method to detect BRCA mutations in the clinical setting, which is essential to formulate a personalized therapy for patients with HBOC.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Decision making on preimplantation genetic diagnosis and prenatal diagnosis: a challenge for BRCA couples		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Awareness and acceptability of preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) as a reproductive option among BRCA carrier couples		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Luring BRCA1 to the Scene of the Crime		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Experience of Risk-reducing Salpingo-oophorectomy for a BRCA1 Mutation Carrier and Establishment of a System Performing a Preventive Surgery for Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome in Japan: Our Challenges for the Future	Risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy is currently regarded as the most certain primary method for preventing ovarian cancer among BRCA1/2 mutation carriers with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. However, risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy has rarely been performed in Japan.We developed the first system in Japan for performing risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy for BRCA1/2 mutation carriers at our university hospital in 2008.The indication for risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy for patients with hereditary breast/ovarian cancer syndrome is currently limited in Japan. This situation may be because of the limited number of genetic counseling units, the limited number of facilities that can perform BRCA1/2 genetic testing and the fact that prophylactic surgery is not covered by health insurance in Japan.Recent treatment guidelines for breast cancer in Japan recommended risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy for BRCA1/2 mutation carriers. Risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy should be performed in the framework of the standard therapeutic modality for BRCA1/2 mutation carriers in the near future.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Functional and Structural Analysis of C-Terminal BRCA1 Missense Variants	Germline inactivating mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes are responsible for Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome (HBOCS). Genetic testing of these genes is available, although approximately 15% of tests identify variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Classification of these variants into pathogenic or non-pathogenic type is an important challenge in genetic diagnosis and counseling. The aim of the present study is to functionally assess a set of 7 missense VUS (Q1409L, S1473P, E1586G, R1589H, Y1703S, W1718L and G1770V) located in the C-terminal region of BRCA1 by combining in silico prediction tools and structural analysis with a transcription activation (TA) assay. The in silico prediction programs gave discrepant results making its interpretation difficult. Structural analysis of the three variants located in the BRCT domains (Y1703S, W1718L and G1770V) reveals significant alterations of BRCT structure. The TA assay shows that variants Y1703S, W1718L and G1770V dramatically compromise the transcriptional activity of BRCA1, while variants Q1409L, S1473P, E1586G and R1589H behave like wild-type BRCA1. In conclusion, our results suggest that variants Y1703S, W1718L and G1770V can be classified as likely pathogenic BRCA1 mutations.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Analysis of 30 Putative BRCA1 Splicing Mutations in Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Families Identifies Exonic Splice Site Mutations That Escape In Silico Prediction	Screening for pathogenic mutations in breast and ovarian cancer genes such as BRCA1/2, CHEK2 and RAD51C is common practice for individuals from high-risk families. However, test results may be ambiguous due to the presence of unclassified variants (UCV) in the concurrent absence of clearly cancer-predisposing mutations. Especially the presence of intronic or exonic variants within these genes that possibly affect proper pre-mRNA processing poses a challenge as their functional implications are not immediately apparent. Therefore, it appears necessary to characterize potential splicing UCV and to develop appropriate classification tools. We investigated 30 distinct BRCA1 variants, both intronic and exonic, regarding their spliceogenic potential by commonly used in silico prediction algorithms (HSF, MaxEntScan) along with in vitro transcript analyses. A total of 25 variants were identified spliceogenic, either causing/enhancing exon skipping or activation of cryptic splice sites, or both. Except from a single intronic variant causing minor effects on BRCA1 pre-mRNA processing in our analyses, 23 out of 24 intronic variants were correctly predicted by MaxEntScan, while HSF was less accurate in this cohort. Among the 6 exonic variants analyzed, 4 severely impair correct pre-mRNA processing, while the remaining two have partial effects. In contrast to the intronic alterations investigated, only half of the spliceogenic exonic variants were correctly predicted by HSF and/or MaxEntScan. These data support the idea that exonic splicing mutations are commonly disease-causing and concurrently prone to escape in silico prediction, hence necessitating experimental in vitro splicing analysis. Citation: Wappenschmidt B, Becker AA, Hauke J, Weber U, Engert S, et al. (2012) Analysis of 30 Putative BRCA1 Splicing Mutations in Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Families Identifies Exonic Splice Site Mutations That Escape In Silico Prediction. PLoS ONE 7(12): e50800. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0050800	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Receipt of Genetic Counseling Recommendations Among Black Women at High Risk for BRCA Mutations	Low use of BRCA counseling and testing services among black women has been reported in several studies, even though such services may play an important role in reducing racial disparities in breast cancer. Surprisingly, little is known about the extent to which black women at high risk for BRCA mutations actually receive recommendations for BRCA counseling. Thus, a primary goal of the current study was to identify sociodemographic and clinical factors associated with the receipt of physician recommendation for genetic counseling based on the self-report of black women at high risk for BRCA mutations. In this cross-sectional study, participants were 125 black women with a family history suggestive of a hereditary breast and/or ovarian cancer syndrome. Participants were asked about their receipt of genetic counseling recommendation or referral. Physician recommendation was reported by over two-thirds of the sample. Multivariate analyses revealed that older age and study recruitment source, specifically community-based recruitment, were significantly and independently associated with lower likelihood of physician recommendation. Findings highlight the need for additional research to identify subgroups of high-risk black women among whom physician recommendation of genetic counseling is low but would benefit from such counseling.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Key features of extrauterine pelvic serous tumours (fallopian tube, ovary, and peritoneum)	Ovarian serous carcinoma (OSC) is the most common of the ovarian epithelial malignancies, and accounts for most of the mortality. Traditionally, ovarian cancer has been considered to be one disease; however, it is now apparent that it actually consists of many different entities. OSC can be further segregated into two processes: high-grade serous carcinoma (HGSC) and low-grade serous carcinoma. This classification is supported by molecular changes, morphological appearance, clinical behaviour, and distinct precursor lesions. This review will describe in detail these features of OSC, differential diagnosis, prognosis, and recent challenges to the existing hypotheses regarding the origin of these tumours. Special attention will be paid to HGSC and its relationship with BRCA abnormalities, especially those seen in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. Finally, treatment options based on specific molecular targets will be discussed.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Genetic Testing by Cancer Site	Women in the United States have a 12% lifetime risk of developing breast cancer. Although only about 5% to 10% of all cases of breast cancer are attributable to a highly penetrant cancer predisposition gene, individuals who carry a mutation in one of these genes have a significantly higher risk of developing breast cancer, as well as other cancers, over their lifetime compared with the general population. The ability to distinguish those individuals at high risk allows health care providers to intervene with appropriate counseling and education, surveillance, and prevention-with the overall goal of improved survival for these individuals. This article focuses on the identification of patients at high risk for breast cancer and provides an overview of the clinical features, cancer risks, causative genes, and medical management for the most clearly described hereditary breast cancer syndromes. Newer genes that have also been implicated in familial breast cancer are also briefly reviewed.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Genetic Testing by Cancer Site Ovary	Approximately 1 in every 4 to 5 women with a diagnosis of ovarian cancer has a hereditary gene mutation that is responsible for the development of her cancer. Identifying women at increased risk of developing ovarian cancer due to a hereditary cancer syndrome can allow for early detection or prevention of not only ovarian cancer, but also other cancers, depending on the causative gene. This review focuses on 3 of the most common hereditary ovarian cancer syndromes, hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes), Lynch syndrome (also known as hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer syndrome), and Peutz-Jeghers syndrome, including key features, genetics, and management of these syndromes. In addition, newly discovered genes (eg, RAD51C and RAD51D) linked to ovarian cancer are discussed.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Genetic Testing by Cancer Site Stomach	Gastric cancer is a global public health concern, ranking as the fourth leading cause of cancer mortality, with a 5-year survival of only 20%. Approximately 10% of gastric cancers appear to have a familial predisposition, and about half of these can be attributed to hereditary germline mutations. We review the genetic syndromes and current standards for genetic counseling, testing, and medical management for screening and treatment of gastric cancer. Recently, germline mutations in the E-cadherin/CDH1 gene have been identified in families with an autosomal dominant inherited predisposition to gastric cancer of the diffuse type. The cumulative lifetime risk of developing gastric cancer in CDH1 mutation carriers is up to 80%, and women from these families also have an increased risk for developing lobular breast cancer. Prophylactic gastrectomies are recommended in unaffected CDH1 mutation carriers, because screening endoscopic examinations and blind biopsies have proven inadequate for surveillance. In addition to this syndrome, gastric cancer risk is elevated in Lynch syndrome associated with germline mutations in DNA mismatch repair genes and microsatellite instability, in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome due to germline BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations, in familial adenomatous polyposis caused by germline APC mutations, in Li-Fraumeni syndrome due to germline p53 mutations, in Peutz-Jeghers syndrome associated with germline STK11 mutations, and in juvenile polyposis syndrome associated with germline mutations in the SMAD4 and BMPR1A genes. Guidelines for genetic testing, counseling, and management of individuals with hereditary diffuse gastric cancer are suggested. A raised awareness among the physician and genetic counseling communities regarding these syndromes may allow for increased detection and prevention of gastric cancers in these high-risk individuals.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Germline mutations in the DNA damage response genes BRCA1, BRCA2, BARD1 and TP53 in patients with therapy related myeloid neoplasms	Background Therapy related myeloid neoplasms (t-MNs) are complex diseases originating from an interplay between exogenous toxicities and a susceptible organism. It has been hypothesised that in a subset of cases t-MNs develop in the context of hereditary cancer predisposition syndromes.Methods The study systematically evaluated pedigrees of patients with t-MNs for cancer incidences and the possibility of a hereditary cancer predisposition syndrome. In addition, mutational analyses were performed using constitutional DNA from index patients, and deleterious heterozygous germline mutations were assessed for loss of heterozygosity in sorted leukaemic cells by single nucleotide polymorphism array.Results A nuclear pedigree was obtained in 51/53 patients with t-MNs resulting in a total of 828 individuals analysed. With a standardised incidence ratio of 1.03 (95% CI 0.74 to 1.39), the tumour incidence of first-degree relatives was not increased. However, six pedigrees were suggestive for a hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, three of a Li-Fraumeni like syndrome, and three index patients showed multiple primary neoplasms. Mutational analysis revealed two BRCA1 (c.3112G -> T, c.5251C -> T), one BRCA2 (c.4027A -> G), two BARD1 (C557S) and four TP53 germline mutations (g. 18508 18761delinsGCC, c.847C -> T, c.845_848dupGGCG, c.1146delA) in nine of 53 (17%) index patients with t-MNs. Loss of heterozygosity in leukaemic cells was demonstrated for the BRCA1c.3112G -> T and TP53c.845_848dupGGCG mutations, respectively.Conclusion It is concluded that a proportion of patients with t-MNs carry cancer susceptibility mutations which are likely to contribute to therapy related leukaemogenesis.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	A self-administered family history questionnaire improves identification of women who warrant referral to genetic counseling for hereditary cancer risk	Objectives. This study was undertaken to assess a self-administered family history questionnaire in order to better identify women within a gynecologic oncology practice for referral to genetic counseling services.Methods. Returning patients at an outpatient gynecologic oncology clinic completed a self-administered family health history questionnaire and a detailed telephone interview. A genetic counselor separately assessed blinded information garnered from the questionnaire, structured genetic interview, and electronic medical records to determine whether these data warranted referral to genetic counseling based on established criteria. The structured genetic interview was considered the gold standard to which the questionnaire and medical record information were compared.Results. Of the 45 total participants in the study, 26(58%) were identified from the structured genetic interview as meeting criteria for referral to genetic counseling. The questionnaire identified 21 (81%) of these 26 referrals, while the medical record identified 13 (50%) of these 26 referrals. This led to a 62% increase in referral capture by the questionnaire. The median time to complete the questionnaire was 17 min (range 5-57 min). Thirty-four participants (75.6%) had more family members with cancer identified on the questionnaire compared to the electronic medical record. The questionnaire identified fewer family members with cancer in the five cases that were missed for appropriate referral.Conclusions. Current standard clinical practices are insufficient at identifying patients in need of referral to genetic counseling. A self-administered questionnaire improves recognition of candidates for genetic counseling in a gynecologic oncology practice. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	A Surveillance Conundrum: A Case of 4 Distinct Primary Malignancies in a BRCA-1 Mutation Carrier	Women with HBOC syndrome present a unique challenge to the oncology community, as will many genetic cancer syndromes yet to be discovered as genetic testing increases in availability. Issues of management and, most importantly, implication are yet to be elucidated. After a diagnosis of epithelial ovarian carcinoma lifelong follow-up is recommended. Given the high recurrence rate and dismal long term prognosis of advanced epithelial ovarian carcinoma this recommendation is more often than not moot. There are no clear guidelines or recommendations for surveillance designed for women with disease free survival greater than five years. This case presents a unique scenario of a woman with predictable disease that remains unpreventable.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Genetic Risk and Gynecologic Cancers	Hereditary cancer syndromes are responsible for 5% of endometrial cancers and 10% of ovarian cancers. Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome and Lynch syndrome account for most of these inherited cases. Significant advances have been made in the identification and management of women with these syndromes. In addition, recent advances have highlighted the prognostic and therapeutic implications for women with gynecologic cancers and inherited cancer syndromes.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	High-risk consumers' perceptions of preimplantation genetic diagnosis for hereditary cancers: a systematic review and meta-analysis	Individuals carrying deleterious germline mutations placing them at increased risk for hereditary cancer syndromes (high-risk consumers) often have a great deal of fear and concern over transmitting mutations to their offspring, particularly conditions which are autosomal dominant. Preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) is a procedure that can detect certain germline cancer predisposing mutations present in embryos. The objective of this review was to assess high-risk consumers' knowledge and perceptions of PGD for hereditary cancers. A systematic literature review was conducted through PubMed, Wiley Interscience, PsychInfo, and Cochrane Library databases to identify all articles assessing consumer knowledge and attitudes of PGD for hereditary cancer syndromes. We assessed heterogeneity and the robustness of findings through additional analyses according to study location, hereditary cancer type, and sample size. Thirteen articles remained eligible after the application of specific criteria. Results show a general low level of knowledge about PGD for hereditary cancers, moderate rates of acceptability among high-risk groups, and high levels of need for information about PGD. Individuals in specific risk groups such as those with a personal or family history of hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) syndrome or familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) may benefit from educational information from healthcare professionals about the use of PGD. Genet Med 2012:14(2):191-200	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	The occurrence of hereditary BRCA1 and BRCA2 sequence variations in Slovene HBOC families in the period from 1999-2009		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Significant differences among physician specialties in management recommendations of BRCA1 mutation carriers	The National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) has published guidelines for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOCS) management. Little data exist on compliance with these guidelines among different physician specialties. We performed an on-line case-based survey by randomly sampling physicians from five specialties, Family Medicine (FM), Obstetrics and Gynecology (OG), General Surgery (GS), Internal Medicine (IM), and Hematology and Oncology (HO). The physicians (n = 225) were asked to provide HBOCS management of healthy women ages 40-42 in the presence of a familial BRCA1 mutation. For women negative for the BRCA1 mutation, 59% of the physicians recommended appropriate surveillance although with significant differences among specialties; P = 0.01. Using an aggregate screening intensity score, physicians clearly recommended more intense screening for mutation positive than negative women (P < 0.0001), but only 16% of physicians followed NCCN guidelines for BRCA1-positive women. Seventy-six percent of all physicians recommended breast MRI with significant variation among specialties ranging from 62% of FM to 89% of OG (P = 0.0020). Similarly, 63% of physicians recommended prophylactic oophorectomy, with 76 and 78% of GS and OG compared to 38% of IM (P < 0.0001) and 57% recommended prophylactic mastectomy ranging from 84% of HO to 32% of FM (P < 0.0001). Independent of specialty, respondents with BRCA testing experience recommended more intense management than those without; P = 0.021. Management recommendations of BRCA1 mutation carriers are not consistent with NCCN guidelines and vary by medical specialty and genetic testing experience. Targeted education of physicians by specialty is needed, so that optimal management is offered to these high-risk women.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	A KRAS-Variant in Ovarian Cancer Acts as a Genetic Marker of Cancer Risk	Ovarian cancer (OC) is the single most deadly form of women's cancer, typically presenting as an advanced disease at diagnosis in part due to a lack of known risk factors or genetic markers of risk. The KRAS oncogene and altered levels of the microRNA (miRNA) let-7 are associated with an increased risk of developing solid tumors. In this study, we investigated a hypothesized association between an increased risk of OC and a variant allele of KRAS at rs61764370, referred to as the KRAS-variant, which disrupts a let-7 miRNA binding site in this oncogene. Specimens obtained were tested for the presence of the KRAS-variant from nonselected OC patients in three independent cohorts, two independent ovarian case-control studies, and OC patients with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC) as well as their family members. Our results indicate that the KRAS-variant is associated with more than 25% of nonselected OC cases. Further, we found that it is a marker for a significant increased risk of developing OC, as confirmed by two independent case-control analyses. Lastly, we determined that the KRAS-variant was present in 61% of HBOC patients without BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations, previously considered uninformative, as well as in their family members with cancer. Our findings strongly support the hypothesis that the KRAS-variant is a genetic marker for increased risk of developing OC, and they suggest that the KRAS-variant may be a new genetic marker of cancer risk for HBOC families without other known genetic abnormalities. Cancer Res; 70(16); 6509-15. (C)2010 AACR.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Identification and comprehensive characterization of large genomic rearrangements in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes	Large genomic rearrangements are estimated to account for approximately 5-10% of all disease-causing mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes in patients with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome (HBOC). We use MRC-Holland Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA) to screen for such rearrangements in patients with HBOC and as a first step in our genetic testing workflow. The technique was applied to a set of 310 independent patients and detected eight different copy number alterations, corresponding to 2.6% of the studied samples. MLPA was also found to identify point mutations located in probe sequences. As commercial MLPA tests are not suitable for determining the specific breakpoints or for defining the exact extent of rearrangements, we applied a set of different complementary techniques to characterize these genetic alterations with greater precision. Long-range PCR amplification, RNA analysis, SNP-array chips, non-commercial MLPA probes, and FISH analysis were used to fully define the extent and mechanism of each alteration. In BRCA1, six rearrangements were characterized: deletion of E22, duplication of E9-E24, deletion of E16-E23, deletion of E1-E13, deletion of E1-E2 and duplication of E1-E2. In BRCA2, we studied a deletion of E15-E16 and a deletion of E1-E24. To the best of our knowledge, this is the most comprehensive study of the nature and underlying molecular causes of these mutational events in the BRCA1/2 genes.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Linker region of the BRCA2 protein increases chemoresistance to cisplatin: Screen for the characterization of cancer-associated variants		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	A KRAS-variant as a putative biomarker of ovarian cancer risk		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Population-based study of BRCA1/2 mutations: Family history based criteria identify minority of mutation carriers	The two major susceptibility genes, BRCA1 and BRCA2, are involved in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. Early detection of mutation carriers has crucial clinical importance, as it allows identification of women who may benefit from intensive clinical follow-up or prophylactic surgery. Generally accepted inclusion criteria for BRCA1/2 mutation testing are based either upon family history of breast or ovarian cancer or young age at cancer diagnosis. In order to analyze the impact of BRCA1/2 mutations on breast cancer development in the Czech population and to confront the clinical and histopathological data of mutation carriers with current criteria for mutation testing we examined the frequency of mutations in unselected breast cancer cases. Mutational analysis of BRCA1/2 genes performed in 679 unselected female breast cancer patients included all recurrent deleterious alterations previously identified in the Prague area and truncating mutations in the whole exon 11 of BRCA1. Within analyzed gene sequences more than 80% of mutations were identified previously in high-risk patients. A total of 16 breast cancer patients (2.4%) carried a mutation. BRCA1 mutations were identified in 14 (2.1%) whereas BRCA2 in 2 (0.3%) women. Family history of ovarian cancer was a strong predictor of a BRCA1/2 mutation (OR = 8.3; p = 0.01), however, family history of breast cancer was not indicative of carrier status. A significant association between medullary breast cancer and mutation status was observed. Current criteria for BRCA1/2 mutation testing would distinguish only 6 out of 16 (37.5%) carriers identified in our study. Ten breast cancer patients with confirmed BRCA1/2 germ-line mutation exhibited no clinical characteristics that would predict their carrier status. Therefore, we believe that the testing for BRCA1/2 mutations in the Czech Republic may not be restricted only to high-risk patients. Our results indicate that analysis of locally prevalent BRCA1/2 mutations in all breast cancer patients might extend substantially the percentage of identified mutation carriers.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Genomic rearrangements in BRCA1 and BRCA2: A literature review	Women with mutations in the breast cancer genes BRCA1 or BRCA2 have an increased lifetime risk of developing breast, ovarian and other BRCA-associated cancers. However, the number of detected germline mutations in families with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) syndrome is lower than expected based upon genetic linkage data. Undetected deleterious mutations in the BRCA genes in some high-risk families are due to the presence of intragenic rearrangements such as deletions, duplications or insertions that span whole exons. This article reviews the molecular aspects of BRCA1 and BRCA2 rearrangements and their frequency among different populations. An overview of the techniques used to screen for large rearrangements in BRCA1 and BRCA2 is also presented. The detection of rearrangements in BRCA genes, especially BRCA1, offers a promising outlook for mutation screening in clinical practice, particularly in HBOC families that test negative for a germline mutation assessed by traditional methods.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer Syndrome The Impact of Race on Uptake of Genetic Counseling and Testing	Breast cancer is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States. Although breast cancer is more common among White American (WA) women, incidence rates are higher among young African American (AA) women. Approximately 5-10% of all breast cancer can be accounted for by germline mutations in the breast cancer (BRCA)1 and BRCA2 genes responsible for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer (HBOC) syndrome. Although genetic counseling (GC) and genetic testing (GT) for HBOC have become widely accepted by the WA population, cancer genetic services are underused among AA. Many investigators have evaluated a wide spectrum of BRCA1 and BRCA2 Mutations in the AA and African population with the possible identification of African founder mutations. Barriers to GC and GT include lack of knowledge and/or negative attitudes regarding genetics and genetics research, and concerns regarding the potential for racial discrimination. It is important for future research to focus on ways in which to eliminate barriers to GC and GT to alleviate disparity in the use of genetic services among high-risk AA women.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Genetic counseling and testing for common hereditary breast cancer syndromes - A paper from the 2007 William Beaumont Hospital symposium on molecular pathology	Throughout the past 15 years, the identification of several genes associated with hereditary breast cancer has fueled the growth of clinical genetic counseling and testing services. In addition, increased knowledge of the genetic and molecular pathways of the known hereditary breast cancer genes, is well as an increased understanding of the impact of testing on individuals has added to the ability to identify, manage, and provide psychosocial support for mutation carriers. This review provides an overview of the clinical features, cancer risks, causative genes, and management for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, Cowden syndrome, and Li-Fraumeni syndrome. This article summarizes the genetic counseling process and genetic test result interpretation, including a review of the key elements involved in the provision of risk assessment and informed consent, as well as a review of the risks, benefits, and limitations of cancer susceptibility genetic testing.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	High occurrence of BRCAI intragenic rearrangements in hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome in the Czech Republic	Background: Alterations in the highly penetrant cancer susceptibility gene BRCA1 are responsible for the majority of hereditary breast and/ or ovarian cancers. However, the number of detected germline mutations has been lower than expected based upon genetic linkage data. Undetected deleterious mutations in the BRCA1 gene in some high-risk families could be due to the presence of intragenic rearrangements as deletions, duplications or insertions spanning whole exons. Standard PCR-based screening methods are mainly focused on detecting point mutations and small insertions/deletions, but large rearrangements might escape detection.Methods: Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification (MLPA) was used to examine BRCA1 rearrangements in 172 unrelated patients with hereditary breast and/or ovarian cancer syndrome without finding deleterious mutation after complete screening of whole coding regions of BRCA1/2 genes. Positive MLPA results were confirmed and located by long-range PCR. The breakpoints of detected rearrangements were characterized by sequencing.Results: Six different large deletions in the BRCA1 gene were identified in 10 out of 172 unrelated high-risk patients: exons 1A/1B and 2 deletion; partial deletion of exon 11 and exon 12; exons 18 and 19 deletion; exon 20 deletion; exons 21 and 22 deletion; and deletion of exons 5 to 14. The breakpoint junctions were localized and further characterized. Destabilization and global unfolding of the mutated BRCT domains explain the molecular and genetic defects associated with the exon 20 in-frame deletion and the exon 21 and 22 in-frame deletion, respectively.Conclusion: Using MLPA, mutations were detected in 6% of high-risk patients previously designated as BRCA1/2 mutation-negative. The breakpoints of five out of six large deletions detected in Czech patients are novel. Screening for large genomic rearrangements in the BRCA1 gene in the Czech high-risk patients is highly supported by this study.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	BRCA1 diagnostic screening by array-CGH		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	The contribution of the hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer syndrome to the development of ovarian cancer	Objective. Ovarian cancer has one of the highest fractions of hereditary cases. The hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, primarily due to mutations in BRCA1 and BRCA2, is the main cause of heredity, but also the hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) syndrome confers an increased risk of ovarian cancer. In order to clarify the contribution of HNPCC to the development of ovarian cancer, we collected data on family history of cancer and characterized MMR function in a consecutive series of 128 tumors unselected for age at diagnosis and previously characterized for BRCA gene mutations.Methods. Expression of the MMR proteins MLH1 PMS2, MSH2, and MSH6 was analyzed by immunohistochemistry using tissue microarray sections. Tumors with reduced staining or loss of staining were also analyzed for microsatellite instability (MSI).Results. Loss of MMR protein expression was identified in 3 ovarian cancers, all of which had a MSI-high phenotype. DNA sequence analysis revealed disease-causing germline mutations (deletions of exons 4-6 in MLHI and a 1-nucleotide deletion in exon 5 of MSH6) in two patients diagnosed at ages 40 and 49 years, both of whom had family histories suggestive of HNPCC. The genetic defect in the third case, which was a 47-year old woman without knowledge about her family history with loss of MLH1/PMS2 expression in the tumor tissue, remains elusive. A family history suggestive of HNPCC was identified in an additional case, but this tumor showed normal, retained MMR protein expression and a microsatellite stable phenotype.Conclusions. About 2% of ovarian cancer is caused by germline mutations in the MMR-genes, a minor proportion as compared to the contribution of the BRCA-genes (11% in the present series). However, identification of HNPCC patients is important since it allows inclusion of high-risk individuals into control programs aimed at preventing the more frequent colorectal and endometrial cancers. Tumors within the HNPCC-spectrum should therefore be included when recording a family history of cancer among patients diagnosed with ovarian cancer. (c) 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Battle of the BRCA1/BRCA2 (offspring) sex ratios: truth or consequences		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Progesterone induces BRCA1 mRNA decrease, cell cycle alterations and apoptosis in the MCF7 breast cancer cell line	Background: Inherited mutations of the BRCA1 gene are responsible for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. However, little is known of how disruption of BRCA1 functions preferentially increases cancer risk in hormone-dependent organs. We aimed to study whether BRCA1 was regulated by progesterone in the MCF7 breast cancer cell line. Materials and Methods: MCF7 breast cancer cells were incubated with 10(-4) or 10(-10) M progesterone for 24 or 48 hours. BRCA1 expression, proliferation and apoptosis were analysed. Results: 10(-4) M progesterone decreased cell proliferation, cell cycle progression and induced apoptosis. In addition, BRCA1 and cyclin A mRNA decreased. In contrast, none of these effects were observed in MCF7 cells incubated with 10(-10) M progesterone. Conclusion: The down-regulation of BRCA1 in MCF7 cells incubated with 10(-4) M progesterone seems to be a consequence of cell cycle alterations rather than a direct effect of the hormone on BRCA I.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	The hereditary spectrum of pancreatic cancer: The Edmonton Cancer Genetics Clinic experience.		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Analysis of BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations in an Iranian family with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome.		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Correlation between BRCA1 expression and apopotosis-related biological parameters in sporadic breast carcinomas.	BRCA1 is a tumor suppressor gene that is responsible for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome. Increased evidence suggests that BRCA1 protein is involved in mammary carcinogenesis in sporadic and hereditary forms. Recent experimental results suggest that BRCA1 plays a role in the regulation of apoptosis. In order to test whether the analysis of human tumors would, provide data supporting this hypothesis in sporadic breast carcinomas, we have investigated the relationship between BRCA1 and apoptosis-related genes. Immunohistochemical analysis was performed to determine BRCA1 and the apoptosis-related proteins bcl-2, Bax and p53 in paraffin-embedded tissues of 156 sporadic invasive ductal carcinomas. BRCA1 expression was positively-correlated with Bcl-2 expression (p=0.0008), but no relationship between BRCA1 expression and Bax or p53 expression could be established. In addition, loss of BRCA1 expression was also related to poor tumor differentiation and lymph node metastasis. Our study shows that bcl-2 might be one of the target genes involved in the oncogenesis related to BRCA1. Loss of BRCA1 may contribute to tumor development in breast carcinomas, which may be independent of the p53 tumor suppressor.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	A novel BRCA1 mutation in an Iranian family with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Recent advances in molecular genetics of breast cancer	Breast cancer is among the most common tumors affecting women. It is characterized by a number of genetic aberrations. Some 5-10% of cases are thought to be inherited. The hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome includes genetic alterations of various susceptibility genes, particularly BRCA1 and BRCA2. Breast tumors of patients with germ-line mutations in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes have more genetic defects than sporadic breast tumors. Here we review new findings in the function of BRCA1 gene function. Accumulation of somatic genetic changes during tumor progression map follows a specific and more aggressive pathway of chromosome damage in these individuals. A major BRCA1 downstream target gene is the DNA damage-responsive gene GADD45. Induction of BRCA1 triggers apoptosis by activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase/stress-activated protein kinase (JNK/SAPK). BRCA1 interacts with SWI/SNF, a chromatin remodeling complex important in gene expression. Recent advances in genomics and bio-informatics, particularly in DNA-sequencing approaches and DNA-chip technology are expected to improve identification of small molecules, which might be drugable targets. New knowledge about the genetic portrait of breast tumor is coming from differential gene expression profiling using microarrays. Human genome studies, as well as development of "DNA chips," provide a window for observing patterns of gene activity in cells, which will contribute to more accurate cancer classification. However, substantial work connected with analytical and statistical tools must still be carried out to confirm the function of differentially expressed genes. Knowledge of the molecular characteristics of breast tumor has already started to make possible the identification of breast cancer patients who could benefit from therapies that target those features. Progress in basic research into signaling provides the opportunity to attack at least some signal-transduction targets involved in proliferation, survival, invasion, angiogenesis, metastasis, and resistance. Exciting knowledge in breast cancer biology is rapidly accumulating in parallel with recent developments in rational selection and validation of relevant targets that provide unique opportunities for development of "intelligent" therapeutics.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Protein truncation test (PTT) for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation screening in Greece		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	A highly accurate, low cost test for BRCA1 mutations	The hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome is associated with a high frequency of BRCA1 mutations. However, the widespread use of BRCA1 testing has been limited to date by three principal concerns: the fear of loss of health and life insurance, the uncertain clinical value of a positive test result, and the current lack of an inexpensive and sensitive screening test for BRCA1 mutations. We have developed an inexpensive system for gene mutational scanning, based on a combination of extensive multiplex PCR amplification and two dimensional electrophoresis. The efficiency of this system, as a screening test for BRCA1 mutations, was evaluated in a panel of 60 samples from high risk women, 14 of which contained a previously identified mutation in BRCA1. All 14 mutations were identified, as well as an additional five that had previously escaped detection. In addition to the 19 mutations, a total of 15 different polymorphic variants were scored, most of which were recurring. All were confirmed by nucleotide sequencing. The cost of screening per sample was calculated to be approximately USdollar sign70 for the manual technique used in this study, and may be reduced to approximately USdollar sign10 with the introduction of commercially available PCR robotics and fluorescent imaging. Implementation of this method of mutation screening in the research and clinical setting should permit rapid accrual of quantitative data on genotype-phenotype associations for the evaluation of diagnostic testing.	HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Analysis of BRCA1 mutations in a Pakistani family with hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome: A significant fraction of familial cases is not caused by mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes		HereditaryBreastOvarianCancerSyndrome	dummy
dummy	Transcriptomics and Transposon Mutagenesis Identify Multiple Mechanisms of Resistance to the FGFR Inhibitor AZD4547	In human cancers, FGFR signaling is frequently hyperactivated by deregulation of FGF ligands or by activating mutations in the FGFR receptors such as gene amplifications, point mutations, and gene fusions. As such, FGFR inhibitors are considered an attractive therapeutic strategy for patients with mutations in FGFR family members. We previously identified Fgfr2 as a key driver of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) in an in vivo insertional mutagenesis screen using the Sleeping Beauty transposon system. Here we explore whether these FGFR-driven ILCs are sensitive to the FGFR inhibitor AZD4547 and use transposon mutagenesis in these tumors to identify potential mechanisms of resistance to therapy. Combined with RNA sequencing-based analyses of AZD4547-resistant tumors, our in vivo approach identified several known and novel potential resistance mechanisms to FGFR inhibition, most of which converged on reactivation of the canonical MAPK-ERK signaling cascade. Observed resistance mechanisms included mutations in the tyrosine kinase domain of FGFR2, overexpression of MET, inactivation of RASA1, and activation of the drug-efflux transporter ABCG2. ABCG2 and RASA1 were identified only from de novo transposon insertions acquired during AZD4547 treatment, demonstrating that insertional mutagenesis in mice is an effective tool for identifying potential mechanisms of resistance to targeted cancer therapies.Significance: These findings demonstrate that a combined approach of transcriptomics and insertional mutagenesis in vivo is an effective method for identifying potential targets to overcome resistance to therapy in the clinic. (C) 2018 AACR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Uterine metastasis revealing a breast mixed carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular breast carcinoma metastatic to the stomach: report of five cases with targeted deep sequencing results		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic value of clinicopathological features in a large cohort of triple negative breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Unusual metastatic pattern of lobular carcinoma: series of cases and review of the molecular basis of disease		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	E-cadherin (Clone 36) nuclear staining associates with adverse prognostic features in lobular breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Extragenital neoplasias involving the uterine cervix: a case series of diagnostic biopsies		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Desmoplastic small round cell tumour: a case report in association with mature teratoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Plexiform tumourlet as an incidental finding in a hysterectomy specimen		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Re-Evaluating E-Cadherin and beta-Catenin A Pan-Cancer Proteomic Approach with an Emphasis on Breast Cancer	E-cadherin is conventionally considered to be a good prognostic marker in cancer. The Loss of E-cadherin is one of the key hallmarks of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, a biological process that promotes cancer cell invasiveness and metastasis. Recent evidence has cast doubt on the importance of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in metastasis. The availability of protein-level data in the Cancer Genome Atlas allows for the quantitative analysis of protein and prognosis. The prognostic values of E-cadherin and beta-catenin were revisited across 19 cancer types, and high E-cadherin was found to correlate with good prognosis in most cancers. Conversely, higher E-cadherin and beta-catenin correlated with shorter survival in invasive breast carcinoma. Stratifying breast cancers by histologic subtype revealed that the poor prognosis of E-cadherin and beta-catenin proteins was characteristic of infiltrating ductal, but not lobular, carcinomas. To further corroborate the protein findings and examine cellular Localization, immunohistochemistry was used for E-cadherin and p-catenin in 163 breast patient samples from the Iowa cohort. Most previous studies showing that reduced or absent E-cadherin and beta-catenin was inversely associated with tumor stages in ductal carcinomas were confirmed. Taken together, these results lead us to question the prognostic values of E-cadherin and beta-catenin in ductal carcinomas and indicate a complicated role of E-cadherin and beta-catenin in breast cancer progression.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Estrogen-driven noncanonical WNT4 signaling is essential for proliferation and survival in lobular carcinoma cells.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Arginase is an enzyme with real tricks in antitumor treatment of 7,12-dimethylbenz(a) anthracene induced breast cancer in rats		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Differentiating breast carcinoma with signet ring features from gastrointestinal signet ring carcinoma: assessment of immunohistochemical markers	Signet ring morphology is recognized throughout the gastrointestinal tract. However, this pattern may be observed in other primary sites giving rise to diagnostic challenges in the work-up of metastases. Relatively newer immunohistochemical markers have not been evaluated in this context. We assessed expression patterns of several common immunohistochemical markers in tumors with Signet ring morphology to delineate a pragmatic approach to this differential diagnosis. Primary breast and gastrointestinal carcinomas showing Signet ring features were reviewed. Non-mammary and non-gastrointestinal tumors with this morphology were included for comparison. Estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), E-cadherin, CK7, CK20, GCDFP-15, mammaglobin, CDX2, GATA-3, and HepPar-1 immunohistochemistry was performed. Expression patterns were compared between breast and gastrointestinal tumors as well as lobular breast and gastric tumors. Ninety-three cases were identified: 33 breast carcinomas including 13 lobular, 50 gastrointestinal tumors including 23 gastric, and 10 from other sites. ER (sensitivity=81.8%, specificity = 100%, positive predictive value (PPV) = 100%, negative predictive value (NPV) = 89.3%) and GATA-3 (sensitivity = 100%, specificity = 98%, PPV = 96.8%, NPV = 100%) expression were associated with breast origin. CK20 (sensitivity = 66.7%, specificity=93.3%, PPV = 94.1%, NPV = 63.6%) and CDX2 (sensitivity = 72%, specificity = 100%, PPV = 100%, NPV = 68.9%) demonstrated the strongest discriminatory value for gastrointestinal origin. These markers exhibited similar discriminatory characteristics when comparing lobular and gastric signet ring carcinomas. In a limited trial on metastatic breast and gastric cases, these markers successfully discriminated between breast and gastric primary sites in 15 of 16 cases. ER and GATA-3 are most supportive of mammary origin and constitute an effective panel for distinguishing primary breast from primary gastrointestinal Signet ring tumors when combined with CK20 and CDX2 immunohistochemistry. (C) 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic heterogeneity of triple negative breast cancer: A National Cancer Centre Database analysis	Background: Triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive disease, but recent studies have identified heterogeneity in patient outcomes. However, the utility of histologic subtyping in TNBC has not yet been well-characterised. This study utilises data from the National Cancer Center Database (NCDB) to complete the largest series to date investigating the prognostic importance of histology within TNBC.Methods: A total of 729,920 patients (pts) with invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), metaplastic breast carcinoma (MBC), medullary breast carcinoma (MedBC), adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC), invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) or apocrine breast carcinoma (ABC) treated between 2004 and 2012 were identified in the NCDB. Of these, 89,222 pts with TNBC that received surgery were analysed. KaplaneMeier analysis, log-rank testing and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression were utilised with overall survival (OS) as the primary outcome.Results: MBC (74.1%), MedBC (60.6%), ACC (75.7%), ABC (50.1%) and ILC (1.8%) had significantly different proportions of triple negativity when compared to IDC (14.0%, p < 0.001). TNBC predicted an inferior OS in IDC (p < 0.001) and ILC (p < 0.001). Lumpectomy and radiation (RT) were more common in MedBC (51.7%) and ACC (51.5%) and less common in MBC (33.1%) and ILC (25.4%), when compared to IDC (42.5%, p < 0.001). TNBC patients with MBC (HR 1.39, p < 0.001), MedBC (HR 0.42, p < 0.001) and ACC (HR 0.32, p = 0.003) differed significantly in OS when compared to IDC.Conclusion(s): Our results indicate that histologic heterogeneity in TNBC significantly informs patient outcomes and thus, has the potential to aid in the development of optimum personalised treatments. (C) 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast MR Imaging before Surgery: Outcomes in Patients with Invasive Lobular Carcinoma by Using Propensity Score Matching	Purpose: To investigate the association between preoperative breast magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and surgical outcomes in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) by using propensity score matching to decide whether MR examination is beneficial in the ILC subtype of breast cancer.Materials and Methods: The authors identified 603 patients with ILC who underwent surgery between January 2005 and December 2016. Of the 603 patients, 369 (61.2%) underwent MR imaging. The authors calculated the MR detection rate of additional lesions that were occult at mammography and ultrasonography and analyzed any alterations in surgical management. After propensity score matching, 196 pairs of patients were allocated to the groups, and the 17 possible confounding variables regarding patient and tumor characteristics and various clinical features were well balanced between the patients who underwent MR imaging and those who did not. Surgical outcomes were compared.Results: Of the 369 patients who underwent MR imaging, additional lesions were detected in 145 (39.3%); 95 of the 145 patients (65.5%) had malignant lesions. A change in surgical management occurred because of MR findings in 94 of the 369 patients (25.5%). According to pathologic findings, this change was appropriate for 84 of the 94 patients (89.4%). In the propensity score-matched analysis, breast MR imaging was associated with lower odds of repeat surgery (odds ratio, 0.140; P < .001) and similar likelihood of initial mastectomy (odds ratio, 0.876; P = .528) and final mastectomy (odds ratio, 0.744; P = .151) compared with patients without breast MR imaging.Conclusion: Preoperative MR imaging is useful for detecting additional synchronous malignancy and significantly reducing the likelihood of repeat surgery without increasing the rate of mastectomy in patients with ILC. (C) RSNA, 2018.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast carcinoma in sclerosing adenosis: a clinicopathological and immunophenotypical analysis on 206 lesions	Aims To fully elucidate the clinicopathological features of breast carcinoma in sclerosing adenosis (SA-BC).Methods Clinical and histological characteristics of 206 SA-BCs from 180 patients were retrospectively evaluated. Immunohistochemical phenotype was examined. The clinicopathological relevance of the topographical pattern of SA-BCs was analysed.Results Overall, up to 46 patients (25.6%) had contralateral cancer, either SA associated or not. Of 99 cases who underwent core needle biopsy (CNB), 36 were underestimated as adenosis or atypical ductal hyperplasia at CNB, 5 invasive cases were misinterpreted as in situ carcinomas, whereas 4 ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) cases were overdiagnosed as invasive carcinoma. Microscopically, 163 tumours were in situ, including 136 DCIS, 19 lobular carcinomas in situ (LCIS) and 8 mixed DCIS/LCIS; of these carcinomas in situ (CIS), 37 had microinvasion. The DCIS group exhibited low, intermediate and high grades in 53.7%, 34.6% and 11.8% of cases, respectively, mostly with solid (43.4%) or cribriform (41.9%) pattern. Forty out of 43 invasive cases were invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), mostly DCIS predominant. Immunophenotypically, luminal A phenotype was identified in 55.1%, 63.2% and 45.0% of DCIS, LCIS and IDC cases, respectively. Topographical type A group (carcinoma being entirely confined to SA, n=176) was characterised by smaller size, less invasiveness, lower grade and more frequency of luminal A immunophenotype compared with type B group ( 50% but not all of the carcinomatous lesion being located in SA, n=30) (all P<0.05).Conclusions CIS, especially non-high-grade DCIS, represents the most common variant of SA-BC, and luminal A is the most predominant immunophenotype. CNB assessment might be challenging in some SA-BCs. The topographical pattern has great clinicopathological relevance. Careful evaluation of the contralateral breast and long-term follow-up for patients with SA-BC is necessary given its high prevalence of bilaterality.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Reducing actin contraction in E-cadherin inactivated mammary epithelial cells leads to the development of invasive lobular carcinoma.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Colonic metastasis from breast carcinoma detection by CESM and PET/CT: A case report	Introduction:Metastatic spread in invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) of breast mainly occurs in bones, gynecological organs, peritoneum, retroperitoneum, and gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Metastases to the GI tract may arise many years after initial diagnosis and can affect the tract from the tongue to the anus, stomach being the most commonly involved site. Clinical presentations are predominantly nonspecific, and rarely asymptomatic. CEA, CA 15-3, and CA 19-9 may be informative for symptomatic patients who have had a previous history of breast cancer.Case presentation:We introduce the case of asymptomatic colonic metastasis from breast carcinoma in a 67-year-old woman followed-up for Luminal A ILC. Diagnosis was performed through positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) scan and contrast-enhancement spectral mammography (CESM), steering endoscopist to spot the involved intestinal tract and in ruling out further dissemination in the breast parenchyma.Conclusion:In colonic metastases, tumor markers might not be totally reliable. In asymptomatic cases, clinical conditions might be underappreciated, missing local or distant recurrence. CT and PET/CT scan might be useful in diagnosing small volume diseases, and steering endoscopist toward GI metastasis originating from the breast. CESM represents a tolerable and feasible tool that rules out multicentricity and multifocality of breast localization. Moreover, particular patients could tolerate it better than magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Strong androgen receptor expression can aid in distinguishing GATA3+metastases	GATA3 is a transcription factor used clinically as a marker of breast or urothelial differentiation. A marker is yet needed to distinguish this in the case of the GATA3-positive tumor of unknown origin. We tested classical markers of breast differentiation and hormonal signaling to see which correlated strongest with GATA3 expression in breast cancer and thus which could help correctly identify breast origin in the case of the GATA3-positive tumor of unknown origin. GATA3, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, androgen receptor (AR), HER2, GCDFP15, and mammaglobin expression was intercorrelated in a histologically diverse 259-case breast cancer tissue microarray. We show herein a uniquely high level of correlation between GATA3 and AR expression (r = 0.61; 95% confidence interval 0.52-0.68) that was strongest among lobular carcinomas (r = 1; 95% confidence interval 0.73-1) and stronger than any other correlation studied. Separate AR staining of 10 metastatic GATA3+ carcinomas of urothelial origin and 13 metastatic GATA3+ carcinomas of breast origin showed that strong AR staining (>60% of tumor cells) has a sensitivity of 54% and a specificity of 100% for correctly distinguishing GATA3+ carcinoma of mammary origin from urothelial origin in the metastatic setting. Androgen receptor expression is strongly correlated with GATA3 in breast cancer, particularly in tumors with lobular morphology. Strong AR expression (>60% of tumor cells) is an excellent test to rule out urothelial carcinoma in the GATA3+ metastatic setting (specificity 100%) and will effectively identify breast origin in approximately 50% of cases. (C) 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comprehensive analysis of haemostatic profile depending on clinicopathological determinants in breast cancer patients	Thrombosis is one of the leading causes of mortality in cancer patients. The aim of the study was to evaluate the concentrations and activities of selected haemostatic parameters in the plasma of patients diagnosed with breast cancer (BrCa) and to make an attempt at finding associations with their levels and selected clinicopathological factors; clinical classification, histological grading, and molecular subtype of BrCa. The study involved 145 Caucasian ethnicity women. Eighty-five women aged 45-66 with primary BrCa without distant metastases (M0). Inclusion criteria were as follows: histopathological examination confirming the diagnosis of primary BrCa, without previous radiotherapy and chemotherapy. The control group consisted of 60, post-menopausal women, aged 45-68. Haemostatic profile expressed by concentrations and activities of tissue factor (TF) and its inhibitor (TFPI) as well as concentrations of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) and plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) were measured applying immunoassay techniques. A significantly higher concentration of PAI-1 was noted in patients with BrCa localized in the left breast. We observed significantly lower activity of TFPI and significantly higher concentration of PAI-1 in the group of patients with invasive ductal carcinoma as compared with invasive lobular carcinoma. A significantly higher concentration of t-PA in patients with pT2 BrCa in relation to pT1 cases was noted. Based on comprehensive analysis of haemostatic profile depending on clinicopathological features, we suggest that haemostatic parameters play crucial roles in invasion and metastases of malignant tumours.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of immune checkpoint regulators, cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1), in female breast carcinomas	BackgroundImmune checkpoint regulators, cytotoxic T lymphocyte antigen 4 (CTLA-4) and the programmed cell death protein-1/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-1/PD-L1) have emerged as promising new targets for cancer therapeutics. While tumor expression of PD-L1 has been shown to have objective responses to anti-PD-L1 immunotherapies, the clinical implications of CTLA-4 expression in tumor cells or immune cells in the tumor microenvironment is still controversial. We investigated the expression of CTLA-4 and PD-L1 in human breast tumors and provided a scoring system for the systematic evaluation of CTLA-4 staining.MethodsImmunohistochemical staining for PD-L1 and CTLA-4 expression was performed on a tissue microarray of 102 cores, which included normal and neoplastic breast tissues. Neoplastic cores were divided into four groups: Ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) and invasive tubular carcinoma (ITC). PD-L1 and CTLA-4 expressions were scored based on a system which accounted for the percentage and intensity of positivity and results provided in conjunction with available clinical and demographic data.ResultsOverall, CTLA-4 was over-expressed in 49 of 93 (52.7%) breast tumors. Subcategorically, CTLA-4 was positive in 3 of 8 (37.5%) ductal carcinoma in situ, 40 of 73 (55%) of invasive ductal carcinomas, 4 of 10 (40%) of invasive lobular carcinomas and 2 of 2 (100%) of invasive tubular carcinomas. All 6 normal breast tissues were interpreted as negative for CTLA-4 staining. Only 4.1% of the invasive ductal carcinomas were positive for PD-L1 reactivity and the remaining carcinomas stained negative.ConclusionsThis study shows a significant overexpression of CTLA-4 in >50% of breast carcinomas with no such overexpression of CTLA-4 in benign breast tissues. PDL-1 staining is seen in only a small number of invasive ductal carcinomas (4.1%). These findings suggest the need for further investigation of anti-CTLA-4 and anti-PD-L1 immunotherapies and their efficacy in the treatment of breast carcinomas with overexpression of these immune modulators. In addition, the proposed scoring system will facilitate a more systematic correlation between tumor reactivity and clinical outcome which can be applied to all intracytoplasmic tumor markers.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of intraoperative touch imprint cytology on axillary sentinel lymph nodes in invasive breast carcinomas, a retrospective study of 1227 patients comparing sensitivity in the different tumor subtypes	BackgroundIntraoperative evaluation of the axillary sentinel lymph node (SLN) in patients with breast carcinoma reduces the need of re-operations in cases where an axillary completion lymph node dissection (CLND) is indicated. Different methods have been used to determine the SLN status intraoperatively, e.g. frozen section histology (FS) and touch imprint cytology (TIC). The sensitivity of intraoperative TIC examination on SLN is not consistent between different studies and varies according to different tumor histologic subtypes, tumor size and the age of the patient. The aim of this study was to describe the specificity and sensitivity of TIC and to compare TIC sensitivity in the different histological subtypes of breast carcinoma.MethodsA retrospective review was performed of 1227 consecutive clinically node negative breast cancer patients treated with sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) with intraoperative TIC between the years 2003 and 2008. The SLN was bisected and stained using the May-Grun-wald-Giemsa method and immunocytochemically with the antibody MNF-116.ResultsThe overall sensitivity of the TIC test was 68.6% and the specificity was 99.8%. There was no statistically significant difference between the detection of SLN metastases from ductal carcinoma versus lobular carcinoma. The sensitivity improved over the period of the study.ConclusionTIC is highly specific with an acceptable overall sensitivity. The sensitivity increased under the period of the study and it was higher in cases with larger size of the primary tumor. There was no difference in TIC sensitivity between the different histological subtypes.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	'In Vitro', 'In Vivo' and 'In Silico' Investigation of the Anticancer Effectiveness of Oxygen-Loaded Chitosan-Shelled Nanodroplets as Potential Drug Vector	Purpose Chitosan-shelled/decafluoropentane-cored oxygen-loaded nanodroplets (OLN) are a new class of nanodevices to effectively deliver anti-cancer drugs to tumoral cells. This study investigated their antitumoral effects 'per se', using a mathematical model validated on experimental data.Methods OLN were prepared and characterized either in vitro or in vivo. TUBO cells, established from a lobular carcinoma of a BALB-neuT mouse, were investigated following 48 h of incubation in the absence/presence of different concentrations of OLN. OLN internalization, cell viability, necrosis, apoptosis, cell cycle and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production were checked as described in the Method section.In vivo tumor growth was evaluated after subcutaneous transplant in BALB/c mice of TUBO cells either without treatment or after 24 h incubation with 10% v/v OLN.Results OLN showed sizes of about 350 nm and a positive surface charge (45 mV). Dose-dependent TUBO cell death through ROS-triggered apoptosis following OLN internalization was detected. A mathematical model predicting the effects of OLN uptake was validated on both in vitro and in vivo results.Conclusions Due to their intrinsic toxicity OLN might be considered an adjuvant tool suitable to deliver their therapeutic cargo intracellularly and may be proposed as promising combined delivery system.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Effects of obesity and overweight on survival in patients with breast cancer: Single center experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer among pregnant women- A challenging situation		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The value of 18 F-FDG PET-CT scanning in stage II and III lobular breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histopathologic characteristics in synchronous bilateral breast cancer patients: A nationwide Danish cohort study from 1999-2015		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Mechanism of net acid extrusion from human breast cancer tissue depends on histopathology and the expression of sex hormone and growth factor receptors		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Management of local and locoregional triple-negative breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Unravelling the South African breast cancer story: The relationship of patients, delay to diagnosis and stage with tumour biology in an urban setting		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Observation versus excision of lobular neoplasia on core needle biopsy of the breast	Controversy surrounds management of lobular neoplasia (LN), [atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH) or lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS)], diagnosed on core needle biopsy (CNB). Retrospective series of pure ALH and LCIS reported "upgrade" rate to DCIS or invasive cancer in 0-40%. Few reports document radiologic/pathologic correlation to exclude cases of discordance that are the likely source of most upgrades, and there is minimal data on outcomes with follow-up imaging and clinical surveillance.Cases of LN alone on CNB (2001-2014) were reviewed. CNB yielding LN with other pathologic findings for which surgery was indicated were excluded. All patients had either surgical excision or clinical follow-up with breast imaging. All cases included were subject to radiologic-pathologic correlation after biopsy.178 cases were identified out of 62213 (0.3%). 115 (65%) patients underwent surgery, and 54 (30%) patients had surveillance for > 12 months (mean = 55 months). Of the patients who underwent surgical excision, 13/115 (11%) were malignant. Eight of these 13 found malignancy at excision when CNB results were considered discordant (5 DCIS, and 3 invasive lobular carcinoma), with the remainder, 5/115 (4%), having a true pathologic upgrade: 3 DCIS, and 2 microinvasive lobular carcinoma. Among 54 patients not having excision, 12/54 (22%) underwent subsequent CNB with only 1 carcinoma found at the initial biopsy site.Surgical excision of LN yields a low upgrade rate when careful consideration is given to radiologic/pathologic correlation to exclude cases of discordance. Observation with interval breast imaging is a reasonable alternative for most cases.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Digital Breast Tomosynthesis (DBT) increases the detection of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC); Experience at a tertiary care center		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinoma with an Unusual Immunophenotypic Profile		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Non-Classical Lobular Carcinoma In Situ and Atypical Lobular Hyperplasia on Core Needle Biopsy: Correlation of Morphologic Features with Upgrade Rate.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HER2 Intratumoral Heterogeneity in Breast Cancer: Clinicopathologic Characteristics		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neoadjuvant Treatment in Breast Cancer; Relationship to HER2 status including HER2 Copy Number using Brightfield Dual in situ Hybridization		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Are Excisions of Incidental and Imaging-Concordant Lobular Neoplasia Still Justified? Perspective from a Hispanic Cohort		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Repeating HER2 on Excision Specimens of Invasive Breast Cancer. Is it Enough to Repeat Only on High Grade Carcinomas?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Differential Expression of Nicotinamide N-methyltransferase (NNMT) in Stroma of Invasive Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Genomic Profiling of Lobular Carcinoma in Situ (LCIS) Variants with Comparison to Classic LCIS and Invasive Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinico-Pathologic and Molecular Profile of Invasive Lobular Carcinoma with Extracellular Mucin (ILCEM)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic Patterns of Cutaneous Metastases of Breast Carcinoma: A Clinicopathological Study of 158 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	5th International Conference on Advances in Hematology and Oncology (ICAHO), Coeur dAlene, ID, USA, August 12 -13, 2017	This International Conference on Advances in Hematology and Oncology annual meeting, which focuses on neoplastic and blood disorders, contains abstracts of 23 papers written in English. Topics include acute chest syndrome, venous thromboembolism risk factors, white blood cell count, pulmonary embolism, sickle cell disease, androgen-secreting adrenal adenoma, antimalarial drug therapy, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, pleural effusion, pericardial effusion, right atrial angiosarcoma, gallbladder carcinoma, multiple myeloma, anticoagulant therapy, metastasis, duodenum adenocarcinoma and Bing-Neel syndrome.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Delivery of a single fraction lumpectomy cavity boost using a novel immobilization device and treatment delivery system		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Characteristics of CHEK2 mutation carriers in a large academic health center in Michigan		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Surgical strategy after neoadjuvant therapy in patients with operable breast cancer can be optimized by knowledge of the level of agreement of measured tumor size on MRI after neoadjuvant therapy and final pathologic assessment		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Surgeon performed intraoperative ultrasound accurately predicts margin status after neaoadjuvant chemotheraphy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Assessing occult brain metastasis with CT scan or MRI in HER2-positive breast cancer patients at initial diagnosis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Predictive value of TILs in evaluation of F-18-FDG-PET in breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Differential regulation of ER protein-turnover in invasive lobular carcinoma cells		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification, clinical characteristics and treatment outcomes of somatic human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (ERBB2) mutations in metastatic breast cancer patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Upgrade to high risk lesions, in situ and invasive cancer among women with benign papillary lesions diagnosed on image-guided core needle biopsy (IGCNB)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Combination FGFR4 and ER-targeted therapy for invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	NTRK fusions in breast cancer: Clinical, pathologic and genomic findings		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic performance of EndoPredict in invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Genomic profiling of metastatic invasive lobular carcinoma reveals unique genomics and therapeutic opportunities		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Relationship of histologic grade and histologic subtype with oncotype Dx recurrence scoreI3/4 retrospective review of 863 breast cancer oncotype Dx results	Oncotype Dx (ODx) is a multigene assay that is prognostic and predictive in estrogen receptor (ER) positive early breast cancer. ODx recurrence score (RS) is reported to be histologic grade dependent. Relationship of RS with breast cancer histologic subtypes is unknown. This study was designed to assess the relationship of histologic subtype with RS. Histologic grade dependence of RS was also investigated.Results of consecutive ODx tests (1/2007-7/2016) from two institutions were reviewed. Histologic subtypes (in: Lakhani et al., WHO classification, IARC Press, Lyon, 2012), combined Nottingham histologic grade, age and tumor size were recorded from pathology reports. Univariate and multivariate analysis was performed to investigate the relationship between RS and ODx risk categories and histologic subtypes, grade, age and tumor size.RS was grade dependent. RS of grade 1 and grade 2 tumors were significantly lower than grade 3 tumors. There was no high-risk grade 1 tumor. In favorable histologic subtypes there was no high-risk tumor. Mean RS of grade 1 lobular tumors was significantly higher than grade 1 ductal tumors. Using newer ODx cut-offs, 5 grade 1 tumors were reclassified as high risk (RS > 25) and grade 3 lobular tumors showed significantly higher rate of reclassification as high-risk than grade 3 ductal tumors. In a multivariate analysis, only grade showed a significant positive correlation with RS. Adding dichotomous histologic subtyping (favorable vs. non-favorable) to grade further improved correlation with RS.The Oncotype Dx result is impacted by histologic grade and histologic subtype. Tumors with favorable histologic subtypes and histologic grade 1 tumors do not have high-risk RS. High RS in a grade 1 tumor or in a tumor with favorable histology is unusual that warrants further investigation. Invasive lobular carcinomas rarely show high-risk RS. Histologic grade and histologic subtype should be considered while ordering ODx testing.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Role of Magnetic Resonance Imaging in the Preoperative Staging and Work-Up of Patients Affected by Invasive Lobular Carcinoma or Invasive Ductolobular Carcinoma (vol 2018, 1569060, 2018)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Role of Magnetic Resonance Imaging in the Preoperative Staging and Work-Up of Patients Affected by Invasive Lobular Carcinoma or Invasive Ductolobular Carcinoma	Purpose. The prevalence of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC), the second most common type of breast cancer, accounts for 5%-15% of all invasive breast cancer cases. Its histological feature to spread in rows of single cell layers explains why it often fails to form a palpable lesion and the lack of sensitivity of mammography and ultrasound (US) to detect it. It also has a higher incidence of multifocal, multicentric, and contralateral disease when compared to the other histological subtypes. Ihe clinicopathologic features and outcomes of Invasive Ductolobular Carcinoma (IDLC) are very similar to the ILC. The purpose of our study is to assess the importance of MRI in the preoperative management and staging of patients affected by ILC or IDLC. Materials and Methods. We identified women diagnosed with ILC or IDLC. We selected the patients who had preoperative breast MRI. For each patient we identified the areas of multifocal, multicentric, or contralateral disease not visible to standard exams and detected by preoperative MRI. We analyzed the potential correlation between additional cancer areas and histological cancer markers. Results. Of the 155 women who met our inclusion criteria, 93 (60%) had additional cancer areas detected by MRI. In 61 women, 39,4% of the overall population, the additional cancer areas were confirmed by US/tomosynthesis second look and biopsy. Presurgical MRI staging changed surgical management in the 37,4% of the patients. Only six patients of the overall population needed a reoperation after the initial surgery. No statistically significant correlation was found between MRI overestimation and the presence of histological peritumoral vascular/infatic invasion. No statistically significant correlation was found between additional cancer areas and histological cancer markers. Conclusions. Our study suggests that MRI is an important tool in the preoperative management and staging of patients affected by lobular or ductolobular invasive carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A CASE OF SALMONELLOSIS CAUSED BY SECONDARY TRASMISSION OF SALMONELLA ENTERICA SSP. ARIZONAE		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Aurora kinase A as a possible marker for endocrine resistance in early estrogen receptor positive breast cancer	Background: Cell culture studies have disclosed that the mitotic Aurora kinase A is causally involved in both tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitor resistant cell growth and thus may be a potential new marker for endocrine resistance in the clinical setting.Material and methods: Archival tumor tissue was available from 1323 Danish patients with estrogen receptor (ER) positive primary breast cancer, who participated in the Breast International Group (BIG) 1-98 trial, comparing treatment with tamoxifen and letrozole and both in a sequence. The expression of Aurora A was determined by immunohistochemistry in 980 tumors and semi quantitively scored into three groups; negative/weak, moderate and high. The Aurora A expression levels were compared to other clinico-pathological parameters and outcome, defined as disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS).Results: High expression of Aurora A was found in 26.9% of patients and moderate in 57.0%. High expression was significantly associated with high malignancy grade and HER2 amplification. High Aurora A expression was significantly more frequent in ductal compared to lobular carcinomas. We found no significant association between Aurora A expression and DFS or OS and no evidence of interaction between Aurora A expression and benefits from tamoxifen versus letrozole.Conclusions: Aurora A expression in breast tumors was associated with high malignancy grade III and with HER2 amplification. A trend as a prognostic factor for OS was found in patients with high Aurora A expression. No predictive property was observed in this study with early breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma in situ and invasive lobular breast cancer are characterized by enhanced expression of transcription factor AP-2 beta	Transcription factor AP-2 beta (TFAP2B) regulates embryonic organ development and is overexpressed in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma, a rare childhood malignancy. Gene expression profiling has implicated AP-2 beta in breast cancer (BC). This study characterizes AP-2 beta expression in the mammary gland and in BC. AP-2 beta protein expression was assessed in the normal mammary gland epithelium, in various reactive, metaplastic and pre-invasive neoplastic lesions and in two clinical BC cohorts comprising >2000 patients. BCs from various genetically engineered mouse (GEM) models were also evaluated. Human BC cell lines served as functional models to study siRNA-mediated inhibition of AP-2 beta. The normal mammary gland epithelium showed scattered AP-2 beta-positive cells in the luminal cell layer. Various reactive and pre-invasive neoplastic lesions, including apocrine metaplasia, usual ductal hyperplasia and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) showed enhanced AP-2 beta expression. Cases of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) were more often AP-2 beta-negative (P < 0.001). In invasive BC cohorts, AP-2 beta-positivity was associated with the lobular BC subtype (P < 0.001), loss of E-cadherin (Po0.001), a positive estrogen receptor (ER) status (Po0.001), low Ki67 (P < 0.001), low/intermediate Oncotype DX recurrence scores (Po0.001), and prolonged event-free survival (P = 0.003). BCs from GEM models were all AP-2 beta-negative. In human BC cell lines, AP-2 beta expression was independent from ER-signaling. SiRNA-mediated inhibition of AP-2 beta diminished proliferation of lobular BC cell lines in vitro. In summary, AP-2 beta is a new mammary epithelial differentiation marker. Its expression is preferentially retained and enhanced in LCIS and invasive lobular BC and has prognostic implications. Our findings indicate that AP-2 beta controls tumor cell proliferation in this slow-growing BC subtype.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Reproductive risk factor associations with lobular and ductal carcinoma in the Carolina Breast Cancer Study	Background Invasive lobular breast tumors display unique reproductive risk factor profiles. Lobular tumors are predominantly Luminal A subtype, and it is unclear whether reported risk factor associations are independent of molecular subtype.Methods Polytomous logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs) for the associations between risk factors and histologic subtype [ductal (n = 2,856), lobular (n = 326), and mixed ductal-lobular (n = 473)] in the Carolina Breast Cancer Study (1993-2013). Three-marker immunohistochemical clinical subtypes were defined as Luminal A (ER+ or PR+/HER2-), Luminal B (ER+ or PR+/HER2+), Triple Negative (ER-/PR-/HER2-), and HER2+ (ER-/PR-/HER2+).Results In case-case analyses compared to ductal, lobular tumors were significantly associated with lactation duration > 12 months [OR 1.86, 95% CI (1.33-2.60)], age at first birth >= 26 years [OR: 1.35, 95% CI: (1.03-1.78)], and current oral contraceptive use [OR: 1.86, 95% CI: (1.08-3.20)]. Differences in risk factor associations between ductal and lobular tumors persisted after restricting to Luminal A subtype.Conclusions Lobular tumors were associated with older age at first birth, increased lactation duration, and current oral contraceptive use. Etiologic heterogeneity by histology persisted after restricting to Luminal A subtype, suggesting both tumor histology and intrinsic subtype play integral parts in breast cancer risk.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Translatomic analysis of invasive breast cancer.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Frequency and Outcome of Clinically Signficant Incidental Findings in Plasma Cell Dyscrasias Patients Undergoing Whole Body FDG PET-CT Scan	PURPOSECombined positron emission tomography (PET)-computed tomography (CT) using fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) is a well-established technique for diagnostic workups of multiple myeloma that can detect intramedullary as well extramedullary disease. However, PET-CT frequently reveals incidental findings, often necessitating additional workup. The present study is focused on clinically significant incidental findings on PET-CT scans in patients with plasma cell dyscrasias, leading to additional diagnostic measures with the resulting outcome.PATIENTS AND METHODSWe reviewed medical records of consecutive patients with plasma cell dyscrasias that were diagnosed from 2012 to 2017 and that had a staging PET-CT at diagnosis. Only the initial PET-CT report was reviewed. Clinically significant incidental finding (CSIF) is defined as any finding that was new and needed further investigation or follow up. Myeloma-related osseous findings and extramedullary plasmacytomas were not considered as incidental findings. All CSIFs were further classified as unequivocal if the finding was previously unknown, definitive and did not require any workup or equivocal if it required further workup, such as review of previous medical records, imaging or tissue diagnosis.RESULTSA total of 470 patients consented and had completed follow-up. Of these, 15.5% (n=73) showed CSIF; 2.7% (n=13) were unequivocal and 12.8% (n=60) were classified as equivocal. Based on review of the medical records, 10 were true positive (most common findings were abdominal aortic aneurysm and hiatal hernia) and 3 were false positive (Flow Sheet). In 12.8% (n=60), findings were equivocal and these were further classified into those requiring clinical correlation/review of previous imaging (4.5%; n=21) and those which required subsequent investigative workup, including imaging procedures and biopsies (8.3%; n=39)(Flow Sheet). Among the 21 cases that required clinical correlation or review of previous imaging, 17 were falsely positive and 4 showed diagnosis of Hepatic angioma, PCP pneumonia, thyroid nodule, gastritis. Thirty-nine cases of equivocal findings required further investigation. Twenty-three cases had nonbiopsy-based investigations yielding 12 truly positive and 11 falsely positive findings. The most common true positive finding was hydronephrosis requiring emergent nephrostomy tube and pituitary macroadenoma. Sixteen patients proceeded to a tissue diagnosis, with 10 truly positive and 6 falsely positive. The most common true positive finding on biopsy was thyroid malignancy. Incidental discovery of other primary malignancies due to PET-CT included lobular carcinoma of the breast, prostate adenocarcinoma, papillary thyroid carcinomas and neuroendocrine tumor of the pancreas. Overall, only 1% (5/470, 95% CI 0-2%) of all patients evaluated with PET-CT scan as initial workup for plasma cell dyscrasia were found to have another primary malignancy.CONCLUSIONIn conclusion, incidental findings on PET scans may be related to a benign process, infection, malignancy or may be falsely positive but finding another primary malignancy is rare. High positive predictive value (58.3%) among equivocal findings in our study suggests that it is important to investigate whenever clinical suspicion is strong. The overall rate of incidental finding was consistent with other studies evaluating the use of PET-CT scans in malignancies. Further prospective studies will be required to identify uniform standards for the further evaluation of incidental findings of PET-CT scans.[GRAPHICS].	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Current Concepts in Diagnosis, Molecular Features, and Management of Lobular Carcinoma In Situ of the Breast With a Discussion of Morphologic Variants	Context.-Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) refers to a neoplastic proliferation of cells that characteristically shows loss of E-cadherin expression and has long been regarded as a risk factor for invasive breast cancer. Longterm outcome studies and molecular data have also implicated LCIS as a nonobligate precursor to invasive carcinoma. In the past few decades, pleomorphic and florid LCIS have been recognized as morphologic variants of LCIS with more-aggressive histopathologic features, less-favorable biomarker profiles, and more-complex molecular features compared with classic LCIS. There is still a lack of consensus regarding certain aspects of managing patients with LCIS.Objectives.-To review recently published literature on LCIS and to provide an overview of the current morphologic classification of LCIS, recent molecular advances, and trends in patient management.Data Sources.-Sources included peer-reviewed, published journal articles in PubMed (US National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland) and published guidelines from the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (Fort Washington, Pennsylvania).Conclusions.-Lobular carcinoma in situ represents a marker for increased risk of breast cancer, as well as a nonobligate precursor to invasive carcinoma. Morphologic variants of LCIS-florid and pleomorphic LCIS-are genetically more-complex lesions and are more likely to be associated with invasive carcinoma. Further investigation into which molecular alterations in LCIS are associated with progression to invasive carcinoma is needed to help guide medical and surgical management.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Multispectral Optoacoustic Tomography (MSOT) of Human Breast Cancer	Purpose: In a pilot study, we introduce fast handheld multispectral optoacoustic tomography (MSOT) of the breast at 28 wavelengths, aiming to identify high-resolution optoacoustic (photoacoustic) patterns of breast cancer and noncancerous breast tissue.Experimental Design: We imaged 10 female patients ages 4881 years with malignant nonspecific breast cancer or invasive lobular carcinoma. Three healthy volunteers ages 31-36 years were also imaged. Fast-MSOT was based on unique single-frame-per-pulse (SFPP) image acquisition employed to improve the accuracy of spectral differentiation over using a small number of wavelengths. Breast tissue was illuminated at the 700-970 nm spectral range over 0.56 seconds total scan time. MSOT data were guided by ultrasonography and X-ray mammography or MRI.Results: The extended spectral range allowed the computation of oxygenated hemoglobin (HBO2), deoxygenated hemoglobin (HB), total blood volume (TBV), lipid, and water contributions, allowing first insights into in vivo high-resolution breast tissue MSOT cancer patterns. TBV and Hb/HBO2 images resolved marked differences between cancer and control tissue, manifested as a vessel-rich tumor periphery with highly heterogeneous spatial appearance compared with healthy tissue. We observe significant TBV variations between different tumors and between tumors over healthy tissues. Water and fat lipid layers appear disrupted in cancer versus healthy tissue; however, offer weaker contrast compared with TBV images.Conclusions: In contrast to optical methods, MSOT resolves physiologic cancer features with high resolution and revealed patterns not offered by other radiologic modalities. The new features relate to personalized and precision medicine potential. (C) 2017 AACR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical Differentiation of Plasmacytoid Urothelial Carcinoma From Secondary Carcinoma Involvement of the Bladder	Plasmacytoid urothelial carcinoma (UC) is a rare variant of UC that can histologically mimic metastatic cancer involving the urinary bladder. A total of 45 cases of plasmacytoid UC were collected and reviewed histologically. The following immunohistochemical markers were performed: CDX2; polyclonal carcinoembryonic antigen (p-CEA); gross cystic disease fluid protein 15 (GCDFP-15); mammaglobin; estrogen receptor (ER); progesterone receptor (PR); GATA 3 and uroplakin II. In all cases, the plasmacytoid variant of UC lacked expression of ER and mammaglobin. In contrast, GCPDFP-15, PR, CDX2 and p-CEA showed positive staining in 11 (24.4%), 6 (13.3%), 8 (17.7%), and 22 (48.8%) cases, respectively. GCPDFP-15 was expressed in 4/8 female cases with 1 concurrently focally (+ 2) expressing PR. GATA 3 and uroplakin II was positive in 37/45 cases (82.2%) and 15/45 (33.3%) cases, respectively. A tissue microarray with 40 cases of infiltrating lobular carcinoma of the breast was stained for uroplakin II, and was negative in all cases. Tissue microarrays with 46 cases of gastric signet ring cell adenocarcinomas were all negative for GCDFP-15, ER, PR, GATA3, uroplakin II, and mammaglobin. A panel of stains including mammaglobin, ER, and uroplakin II is recommended to exclude metastatic lobular breast carcinoma to the bladder in cases where a conventional UC component is not present. Immunohistochemistry for CDX2 and p-CEA cannot be utilized to differentiate signet ring cell adenocarcinoma of the gastrointestinal tract from plasmacytoid UC; GATA3 or uroplakin II immunoreactivity can rule out a gastric primary given their negativity in signet ring cell adenocarcinoma of the stomach.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Amplification and overexpression of PSCA at 8q24 in invasive micropapillary carcinoma of breast	Invasive micropapillary carcinoma (IMPC) of the breast has distinct histological features and molecular genetic profiles. Gains/amplifications of 8q24 are found associated with IMPC. Although the prostate stem cell antigen (PSCA) gene is located at chromosome 8q24, and found over-expressed in prior studies, its prognostic values and biological significance in IMPC have not been well studied.Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was used to assess the frequencies of PSCA copy number gains in IMPC, invasive ductal carcinoma of no special type (IDC-NST), and invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) samples. The protein expression levels of PSCA were examined in 56 IMPC, 72 IDC-NST, and 56 ILC samples using immunohistochemical analysis.PSCA gene amplification was detected in 45.2% (14/31) of the IMPC, 28.1% (9/32) of the IDC-NST, and none (0/25) of the ILC. PSCA protein expression was observed in 58.9% (33/56), 40.3% (29/72), and 3.6% (2/56) of IMPC, IDC-NST, and ILC samples, respectively. The concordant rate of the immunohistochemistry and FISH data was 85.2%. PSCA gene amplification highly correlated with its protein overexpression (rs = 0.687, P < 0.001), suggesting that gene amplification is an important mechanism involved in PSCA overexpression. Our univariate analysis showed that the patients with PSCA-positive IMPC had a decreased disease-free survival (DFS) compared to PSCA-negative IMPC patients (P = 0.003). Our multivariate analysis confirmed the worse DFS in PSCA-positive IMPC patients (P = 0.022).Our results indicate that PSCA may be an attractive target in the 8q24 amplicon and that it may serve as a molecular marker of metastasis and recurrence in IMPC. The differential expression of PSCA may be associated with cell adhesion. Detection of PSCA protein and gene amplification may help manage and predict the prognosis of IMPC patients.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of DNA methylation-related proteins in invasive lobular carcinoma of breast: comparison to invasive ductal carcinoma	Purpose: We aimed to compare the expression of DNA methylation-related proteins in invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) of breast with those of invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) of breast and to assess its potential clinical application.Methods: Immunohistochemical staining of DNA methylation-related proteins (5-meC, DNMT1, DNMT3B and ISL-1) was applied to tissue microarrays generated from 108 ILCs and 203 IDCs. Protein expression and its correlation with clinicopatholgic variables were statistically analyzed.Results: ISL-1 and DNMT3B were highly expressed in ILC (p<0.001) and tumoral 5-meC was highly expressed in IDC (p=0.006). DNMT1 (p<0.001) showed higher expression rate in luminal A type ILC. ISL-1 and DNMT3B showed higher expression rate in both luminal A type and luminal B type of ILC (p<0.05). In IDC, tumoral 5-meC commonly showed high positivity (p=0.039). On univariate analysis, shorter disease-free survival of ILC was associated with DNMT1 high positivity (p=0.001) and ISL-1 positivity (p=0.018).Conclusion: DNA methylation-related proteins are differentially expressed in ILC and IDC, and DNMT1, DNMT3B and ISL-1 show high expression rate in ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Impact of the 21-gene recurrence score on outcome in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast	Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) of the breast has unique clinicopathologic characteristics, compared to invasive ductal carcinoma. The role of the 21-gene Recurrence Score (RS) has not been clearly defined for ILC. We sought to determine the prognostic value of RS and the impact of adjuvant chemotherapy on long-term survival in patients with ILC.Utilizing the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results database from 2004 to 2013, we identified records of women aged 18-74 years, diagnosed with estrogen receptor (ER)-positive ILC (stage I to III) with RS available. We categorized patients into risk groups based on the traditional RS cutoffs and into those of the Trial Assigning Individualized Options for Treatment (TAILORx). Five-year breast cancer-specific survival (BCSS) was analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method and Cox proportional hazards models.Of the 7316 women included, 21% were in the low-risk; 71%, intermediate-risk; and 8%, high-risk groups as per TAILORx RS cutoffs. The 5-year BCSS was 99% in the low-risk, 99% in the intermediate-risk, and 96% in the high-risk groups. A high-risk RS as per TAILORx cutoff was independently associated with increased mortality (hazard ratio [HR] of death 2.37, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.14-4.95) when compared to a low-risk RS. In both the high-risk and intermediate-risk groups, adjuvant chemotherapy was not significantly associated with the HR of death (high-risk, HR 1.14, 95% CI 0.55-2.38; intermediate-risk, HR 1.08, 95% CI 0.62-1.87).For patients with ER-positive ILC, 8% were in the high-risk and 72% were in the intermediate-risk groups as per the TAILORx RS cutoffs. In the high-risk group, the RS predicted a lower 5-year BCSS. Adjuvant chemotherapy did not seem to confer a survival benefit for either the intermediate- or the high-risk cohorts.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Single Institution Clinical Outcomes for Locally Recurrent Breast Cancer Patients Treated with a Second Breast Conserving Surgery and Intraoperative Radiotherapy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic impact of proliferation for resected early stage 'pure' invasive lobular breast cancer: Cut-off analysis of Ki67 according to histology and clinical validation	Introduction: The intent of this analysis was to investigate and validate the prognostic potential of Ki67 in a multi-center series of patients affected by early stage 'pure' invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC).Methods: Clinical-pathological data of patients affected by ILC were correlated with overall survival and disease-free survival (OS/DFS); data from a parallel invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) patients' cohort were gathered as well. The maximally selected Log-Rank statistics analysis was applied to Ki67 continuous variable to estimate the appropriate cut-off. The Subpopulation Treatment Effect Pattern Plot (STEPP) analysis was performed as well.Results: Data from overall 1097 (457/222 ILC: training/validation set; 418 IDC) patients were gathered. The identified optimal Ki67 cut-offs were 4% and 14% for DFS in ILC and IDC cohort, respectively. In ILC patients, the Ki67 cut-off was an independent OS predictor. Ten-years OS and DFS were 89.9% and 77.2% (p = 0.007) and 79.4% and 69.2% (p = 0.03) for patients with Ki67 < 4% and > 4%, respectively. In IDC patients, 10-years OS was 93.8% and 71.7%, p = 0.02, DFS was 84.0% and 52.6%, p = 0.0003, for patients with Ki67 <= 14% and > 14%, respectively. In the validation set, the optimal Ki67 OS cut-off was 5%. The STEPP analysis showed that in the presence of low Ki67 values, IDC patients have a better DFS than ILC patients, while with the increase of values the prognosis tends to overlap.Conclusions: Despite the retrospective design of the study, the prognostic relevance of Ki67 (as well as its optimal cut-off) seems to significantly differ according to breast cancer histology. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Rare Case of Large Bowel Obstruction Due to Metastatic Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathological characteristics and survival outcomes of invasive lobular carcinoma in different races	To investigate the clinicopathological characteristics and to determine whether there is a differential effect of race and examine survival outcomes according to race, 18,295 breast invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) patients were identified in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Result (SEER) database, which includes White patients (n=15,936), Black patients (n=1,451) and patients of other races (including American Indians/Alaskan Natives and Asian/Pacific Islanders) (n=908). The Black ILC patients presented a higher rate of advanced histological grades and American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) stages, a higher rate of lymph node (LN) involvement and a lower rate of progesterone receptors (PR)-positivity than the White patients and other races. The five-year overall survival (OS) and five-year breast cancer specific survival (BCSS) were worst in the Black patients among these patients (85.5%, 76.0% and 87.7%, P<0.01; 91.1%, 84.4% and 91.6%, P<0.01). Multivariate regression analyses were performed to determine the risk hazards ratios (HR) of death for patients of the White, Black and other races. Among these patients, the Black patients had the worst survival outcomes in five-year OS and BCSS outcomes (HR=1.35, 95% confidence interval (CI) : 1.20-1.51, P<0.01; HR=1.39, 95% CI: 1.21-1.61, P<0.01, respectively). After a 1: 1: 1 matching of the three groups, the Black patients still presented worse survival outcomes in BCSS compared to White patients (HR=1.88, 95% CI: 1.14-3.10, P=0.013), however, there was no difference in OS (HR=1.35, 95% CI: 0.93-1.96, P=0.111). Difference in outcomes may partially explained by difference in histological grades, AJCC stage, LN and PR status among the three groups. In conclusion, this study revealed that the Black patients had worse five-year OS and BCSS than White and other race patients.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Mixed invasive ductal and lobular carcinoma has distinct clinical features and predicts worse prognosis when stratified by estrogen receptor status	In order to investigate clinicopathological characteristics and prognosis of mixed invasive ductal and lobular carcinoma (IDC-L), 209,109 primary breast cancer patients diagnosed with invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) or IDC-L were included. It was found that IDC-L patients had lower tumor grade and higher hormone receptor positive proportions than IDC patients. Moreover, IDC-L patients were younger and had a similar hormone receptor status compared with ILC patients. Kaplan-Meier plots showed that the breast cancer-specific survival (BCSS) of IDC-L patients was significantly better than IDC patients (P < 0.001) and tended to be better than ILC patients (P = 0.166). However, after adjusting for clinicopathological factors, survival advantage of IDC-L disappeared. Subgroup analysis indicated that IDC-L had higher hazard ratios (HRs) than IDC in grade 1, grade 2, ER-positive and ER-negative subgroups. Survival analysis in ER-positive and ER-negative subgroups showed that IDC-L predicted a worse prognosis than IDC. In conclusion, IDC-L is a distinct histological subtype compared with IDC and ILC. Lower grade and higher ER-positive proportions mainly contribute to its better prognosis. In both ER-positive and ER-negative subgroups, IDC-L predicts worse prognosis than IDC, which suggested the inadequacy of IDC-based therapy and the need of escalated therapy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Value of Additional Digital Breast Tomosynthesis for Preoperative Staging of Breast Cancer in Dense Breasts	Aim: This retrospective study was initiated to determine the diagnostic value of additional preoperative breast tomosynthesis (DBT) for breast cancer staging in dense breasts. Patients and Methods: Sixty-six patients (69 breasts) with findings of American College of Radiology category 3 or 4 with Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System 5, 6 or 0 were included. All patients underwent digital mammography and additional DBT. Results: A total of 40/69 (58%) cancers were detected on both mammography and DBT, 23 (33.3%) were only seen on DBT (p= 0.0001); 6/69 (8.7%) carcinomas were not detected by either method, of which three were invasive lobular carcinomas. Sensitivity for multifocal/multicentric disease was significantly higher on DBT (12/19, 63.2%) compared to mammography (4/19, 21.1%) (p= 0.02), specificity was comparable (96.0% vs. 90.0%). Multifocal/multicentric disease was not detected on mammography nor DBT in 7/19 (36.8%) patients, including three invasive lobular carcinomas. Conclusion: DBT may significantly improve preoperative breast cancer staging in patients with dense breasts compared to conventional mammography alone. Nevertheless, limitations have to be expected in the case of invasive lobular carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinoma (ILC) Typing by E-Cadherin Immunohistochemistry (IHC) in Non-Operative Breast Needle Core Biopsy - A Service Evaluation Study of 89 Cases from the Breast Unit, Belfast City Hospital, Belfast Health and Social Care Trust		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Epidemiology of breast cancer in Newfoundland, Canada: Post-Cameron inquiry analysis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CD9 expression is associated with poor prognosis in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cutaneous metastases of breast cancer: A study of telve cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The EndoPredict gene-expression assay in clinical practice in ER-positive/HER2-negative primary invasive breast cancer: Comparison with standard clinicopathological parameters		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A cell line thought to represent mucinous breast cancer probably represents lobular carcinoma with extracellular mucin production		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of Treatment Outcome Between Invasive Lobular and Ductal Carcinomas in Patients Receiving Partial Breast Irradiation With Intraoperative Electrons	Purpose: To investigate the local outcome of patients after accelerated partial breast irradiation with intraoperative electrons (IORT) for invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) compared with invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC).Methods and Materials: From 1999 to 2007, 2173 patients were treated with breast-conserving surgery and IORT (21 Gy/1 fraction) as the sole local treatment: 252 patients with ILC (11.6%) were compared with 1921 patients with IDC in terms of local control.Results: Compared with the IDC subgroup, patients with ILC had a low-risk profile and were more hormone responsive. The 5-and 10-year in-breast tumor reappearance IBTR) rates were 5.5% and 14.4%, respectively, for the IDC group and 7.5% and 21.8%, respectively, for the ILC group (log-rank P=.03). The excess risk of IBTR associated with ILC was particularly high for small tumors (<= 1 cm: hazard ratio [HR], 2.24; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.03-4.85), elderly patients (60-69 years: HR, 2.27; 95% CI, 1.11-4.63; >= 70 years: HR, 3.28; 95% CI, 1.08-10.0), low-grade tumors (grade 1: HR, 3.50; 95% CI, 1.05-11.7), and luminal A molecular subtype (HR, 3.18; 95% CI, 1.49-6.77). Among the ILC histologic variants, no difference between classic and nonclassic subgroups was observed, although the signet ring cell and solid variants had the worst local control.Conclusions: Despite a favorable tumor profile, accelerated partial breast irradiation with IORT led to a higher incidence of IBTRs in patients with ILC compared with those with IDC. Our institutional experience emphasized the importance of the size of the irradiation field, pointing to the use of larger collimators, even when dealing with small tumors, to improve local control. (C) 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Burdens and Uncertainties of Doing What One Should Do	Despite FDA approval of drugs to reduce the risk of breast cancer in women at increased risk, uptake of these drugs has been poor despite the publication of numerous studies that demonstrate both their effectives and safety. National organizations have made recommendations for their use, but both physicians and their patients do not fully understand either breast cancer risk factors or risk assessment or the indications for using risk-reducing agents. Histologically predisposing conditions, such as ductal or lobular atypia and lobular carcinoma in situ, impart particularly high risks of developing subsequent invasive breast cancer. Resources should be committed to both provider and patient education to reduce the risk of breast cancer in women who are at increased risk. (C) 2017 AACR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Chemoprevention Uptake among Women with Atypical Hyperplasia and Lobular and Ductal Carcinoma In Situ	Women with atypical hyperplasia and lobular or ductal carcinoma in situ (LCIS/DCIS) are at increased risk of developing invasive breast cancer. Chemoprevention with selective estrogen receptor modulators or aromatase inhibitors can reduce breast cancer risk; however, uptake is estimated to be less than 15% in these populations. We sought to determine which factors are associated with chemoprevention uptake in a population of women with atypical hyperplasia, LCIS, and DCIS. Women diagnosed with atypical hyperplasia/LCIS/DCIS between 2007 and 2015 without a history of invasive breast cancer were identified (N = 1,719). A subset of women (n = 73) completed questionnaires on breast cancer and chemoprevention knowledge, risk perception, and behavioral intentions. Descriptive statistics were generated and univariate and multivariable log-binomial regression were used to estimate the association between sociodemographic and clinical factors and chemoprevention uptake. In our sample, 29.3% had atypical hyperplasia, 23.3% had LCIS, and 47.4% had DCIS; 29.4% used chemoprevention. Compared with women with atypical hyperplasia, LCIS [RR, 1.43; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.16-1.76] and DCIS (RR, 1.54; 95% CI, 1.28-1.86) were significantly associated with chemoprevention uptake, as was medical oncology referral (RR, 5.79; 95% CI, 4.80-6.98). Younger women were less likely to take chemoprevention (RR, 0.61; 95% CI, 0.42-0.87), and there was a trend toward increased uptake in Hispanic compared with non-Hispanic white women. The survey data revealed a strong interest in learning about chemoprevention, but there were misperceptions in personal breast cancer risk and side effects of chemoprevention. Improving communication about breast cancer risk and chemoprevention may allow clinicians to facilitate informed decision-making about preventative therapy. (C) 2017 AACR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical and histopathological features of breast cancer in Jordan: Experience from a tertiary care hospital	Objective: To analyse breast cancer cases with respect to age, menopausal status, hormone receptors and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 expression, in addition to nodal and distant metastases.Methods: This retrospective study was conducted at Jordan University Hospital, Amman, Jordan, and comprised cases of breast carcinoma among females between 2006 and 2015. Clinicopathological data was collected from patient files and laboratory reports. Data was analysed using SPSS v 17.Results: Of the 752 cases, 559(74.3%) were invasive ductal carcinomas of non-specific type, followed by 36(4.8%) cases of invasive lobular carcinoma. Upon investigating the clinicopathological data on the breast cancer cases, 466(61.97%) cases had sufficient information for further analysis. Of them, 414(61.97%) patients were aged above 40 years and 190(40.77%) were post-menopausal. Moreover, 221(47.42%) cases showed lymph node metastases, but only 32(6.87%) had distant metastases. The expression of oestrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 was found to be positive in 343(73.6%), 299(66.7%) and 97 (24.6%) cases, respectively. Besides, 42(9.01%) cases were triple negative, which were diagnosed only in females below 40 years age.Conclusion: These results were in concordance with international reports, except for the association of triple negative breast cancer with age where it was mainly diagnosed among females younger than 40 years age.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Estrogen and progesterone receptor expression levels do not differ between lobular and ductal carcinoma in patients with hormone receptor-positive tumors	Background Differences in estrogen (ER) and progesterone (PR) expression between invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) could be an underlying reason for the difference in chemo-sensitivity and response to hormonal therapy between ILC and IDC. The aim of this study was to investigate the differences in ER and PR expression levels between postmenopausal patients with hormonal receptor-positive ILC and IDC.Methods We included all ER and/or PR receptor-positive ILC and IDC, diagnosed between January 2011 and December 2013 from the population-based Netherlands Cancer Registry. A semi-quantitative classification was used to analyze differences in ER/PR expression, which consisted of three ER expression classes: 10-69, 70-89, and >= 90%. Differences in ER and PR expression levels between IDC and ILC were analyzed according to age group, tumor size, axillary nodal status, grade, and HER2 status.Results In total, 26,339 ER and/or PR-positive breast cancers were included in the study, of which 17% were ILC and 83% IDC. In patients with IDC, 86% of the tumors showed an ER expression level of 90% or more, compared to 84% in those with ILC. In both IDC and ILC a PR expression level of 90% or more was observed in 54% of the tumors. In postmenopausal patients aged 50-69 years no significant differences could be observed in ER and PR expression levels between ILC and IDC.Conclusion Patients with ER and PR-positive ILC and IDC have similar quantitative ER and PR expression profiles, implicating that ER/PR expression is unlikely to be a confounding factor in studies concerning chemo-sensitivity of ILC and IDC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma with extracellular mucin production-a novel pattern of lobular carcinomas of the breast. Clinico-pathological description of eight cases	Invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast is known to produce intracellular mucin and has been recognized in single-case reports to show extracellular mucin production, as well. This latter morphology is not only rare but must also be under- or misdiagnosed. The aim was to better characterize this entity. Cases of lobular cancers demonstrating extracellular mucin formation were identified in a multi-institutional effort and their clinical and morphologic features were assessed. Immunohistochemistry was used to characterize the E-cadherin-membrane complex, neuroendocrine differentiation, and to some extent, mucin formation. All but one of the eight cases occurred in postmenopausal patients. Extracellular mucin production was present in 5 to 50% of the tumour samples and rarely also appeared in nodal and distant metastases. The tumours were completely E-cadherin negative and showed cytoplasmic p120 positivity. The majority (n = 6/8) was also completely negative for beta-catenin, but two tumours displayed focal beta-catenin positivity in the mucinous area. MUC1 and MUC2 expression was observed in all and 7/8 tumours, respectively; neuroendocrine differentiation was present in only one. Invasive lobular carcinoma with extracellular mucin formation is a rare morphologic variant of lobular carcinoma prone to be misdiagnosed and warranting further studies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Deep Learning in Mammography Diagnostic Accuracy of a Multipurpose Image Analysis Software in the Detection of Breast Cancer	Objectives: The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of a multipurpose image analysis software based on deep learning with artificial neural networks for the detection of breast cancer in an independent, dual-center mammography data set.Materials and Methods: In this retrospective, Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act-compliant study, all patients undergoing mammography in 2012 at our institution were reviewed (n = 3228). All of their prior and follow-up mammographies from a time span of 7 years (2008-2015) were considered as a reference for clinical diagnosis. After applying exclusion criteria (missing reference standard, prior procedures or therapies), patients with the first diagnosis of a malignoma or borderline lesion were selected (n = 143). Histology or clinical long-term follow-up served as reference standard. In a first step, a breast density-and age-matched control cohort was selected (n = 143) from the remaining patients with more than 2 years follow-up (n = 1003). The neural network was trained with this data set. From the publicly available Breast Cancer Digital Repository data set, patients with cancer and a matched control cohort were selected (n = 35 x 2). The performance of the trained neural network was also tested with this external data set. Three radiologists (3, 5, and 10 years of experience) evaluated the test data set. In a second step, the neural network was trained with all cases from January to September and tested with cases from October to December 2012 (screening-like cohort). The radiologists also evaluated this second test data set. The areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve between readers and the neural network were compared. A Bonferroni-corrected P value of less than 0.016 was considered statistically significant.Results: Mean age of patients with lesion was 59.6 years (range, 35-88 years) and in controls, 59.1 years (35-83 years). Breast density distribution (A/B/C/D) was 21/59/42/21 and 22/60/41/20, respectively. Histologic diagnoses were invasive ductal carcinoma in 90, ductal in situ carcinoma in 13, invasive lobular carcinoma in 13, mucinous carcinoma in 3, and borderline lesion in 12 patients. In the first step, the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the trained neural network was 0.81 and comparable on the test cases 0.79 (P - 0.63). One of the radiologists showed almost equal performance (0.83, P - 0.17), whereas 2 were significantly better (0.91 and 0.94, P < 0.016). In the second step, performance of the neural network (0.82) was not significantly different from the human performance (0.77-0.87, P > 0.016); however, radiologists were consistently less sensitive and more specific than the neural network.Conclusions: Current state-of-the-art artificial neural networks for general image analysis are able to detect cancer in mammographies with similar accuracy to radiologists, even in a screening-like cohort with low breast cancer prevalence.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Well-differentiated invasive breast cancers with equivocal HER2 immunohistochemistry: what is the yield of routine reflex in-situ hybridization testing?	Aims: The 2013 American Society of Clinical Oncology and the College of American Pathologists (ASCO/CAP) HER2 guidelines recommend testing all invasive breast cancers for HER2, typically with immunohistochemistry (IHC) followed by in-situ hybridization (ISH) when IHC is equivocal. As well-differentiated breast cancers are rarely HER2-positive, we assessed the value of routine reflex HER2 ISH testing for this subset of breast cancers.Methods and results: We collected HER2 IHC 2+ cases and fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) data from primary breast cancers with well-differentiated tumour types (grade 1 ductal carcinomas, classic lobular carcinomas, tubular, cribriform and pure mucinous carcinomas) at our centre from 2010 to 2015. Haematoxylin and eosin (H&E) and IHC slides were reviewed to confirm tumour type, grade and IHC score based on ASCO/CAP 2013 guidelines and their recent revisions. Of 4633 invasive carcinomas, 1133 had a well-differentiated tumour type; 177 of these were HER2 IHC equivocal, three of which were low-level amplified by FISH (0.3% of all well-differentiated tumours). One amplified case was classic invasive lobular carcinoma and two were invasive ductal carcinomas, grade 1. One amplified case had chromosome 17 monosomy, and one was rescored as HER2 IHC 1+ upon review. 'Basolateral' staining was noted in one amplified case and in 65 of 174 (37.4%) nonamplified cases. This incomplete membranous staining pattern was observed in the majority of invasive ductal carcinomas that were rescored as 1+ according to the revised 2013 guidelines.Conclusions: The rate of HER2 amplification among well-differentiated breast cancers is very low. Basolateral staining in well-differentiated tumours may be overinterpreted as HER2 IHC 2+, but is rarely associated with HER2 amplification.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Metastatic breast cancer to the rectum A case report with emphasis on MRI features	Rationale: Less than 1% of breast carcinomas metastasize to the gastrointestinal tract. The diagnosis is frequently not recognized especially when the history of breast carcinoma is remote.Patient concerns: A 61-year-old female with a remote history of breast carcinoma presented with a 3-month history of change in bowel habits. Colonoscopy showed a circumferential rectal mass with initial impression of primary rectal cancer. MRI of the rectum showed findings that are atypical for primary rectal cancer.Diagnoses: Deep biopsy of the rectal mass confirmed lobular breast carcinoma metastasis to the rectum.Intervention and outcomes: The patient was treated with radiotherapy and hormonal therapy. She is symptomatically well 2 years after presentation and remains on hormonal therapy.Lessons: Lobular breast cancer which metastasizes to the rectum can mimic primary rectal cancer clinically. The unique MRI features described in our case when present with a concordant history of lobular breast carcinoma should alert the radiologist to the possibility of this diagnosis which has important treatment implications.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Impact of selective use of breast MRI on surgical decision-making in women with newly diagnosed operable breast cancer	Background: This study evaluated the impact of breast MRI on surgical planning in selected cases of breast malignancy (invasive cancer or DCIS). MRI was used when there was ambiguity on clinical and/or conventional imaging assessment.Methods: Consecutive women with breast malignancy undergoing breast MRI were included. Clinical, mammogram and ultrasound findings and surgical plan before and after MRI were recorded. MRI findings and histopathology results were documented and the impact of MRI on treatment planning was evaluated.Results: MRI was performed in 181/1416 (12.8%) cases (invasive cancer 155/1219 (12.7%), DCIS 26/197 (13.2%)). Indications for MRI were: clinically dense breast tissue difficult to assess (n = 66; 36.5%), discordant clinical/conventional imaging assessment (n = 61; 33.7%), invasive lobular carcinoma in clinically dense breast tissue (n = 22; 12.2%), palpable/mass-forming DCIS (n = 11; 6.1%); other (n = 19; 10.5%). The recall rate for assessment of additional lesions was 35% (63/181). Additional biopsy-proven malignancy was found in 11/29 (37.9%) ipsilateral breast recalls and 8/34 (23.5%) contralateral breast recalls. MRI detected contralateral malignancy (unsuspected on conventional imaging) in 5/179 (2.8%). The additional information from MRI changed management in 69/181 (38.1%), with more unilateral surgery (wider excision or mastectomy) in 53/181 (293%), change to bilateral surgery in 12/181 (6.6%), less surgery in 4/181 (2.2%). Clinical examination estimated histological size within 20 mm in 57%, conventional imaging in 55% and MRI in 71%.Conclusion: MRI was most likely to show concordance with histopathology in the 'discordant assessment' and 'invasive lobular' groups and less likely for 'challenging clinically dense breast tissue.' MRI changed management in 69/181 (38.1%). (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Outcomes and utilization of postmastectomy radiotherapy for T3NO breast cancers	Background: The role of postmastectomy radiotherapy (PMRT) for women with pT3NOMO breast cancer is controversial. We sought to determine the benefit of PMRT in this cohort using the National Cancer Database (NCDB).Methods: We analyzed women with pT3NOMO breast cancer who received mastectomy with or without PMRT between 2004 and 2012. We excluded men, women <= 18 years, neoadjuvant or unknown radiation or chemotherapy status, unknown estrogen or progesterone receptor status, unknown surgical margin status, histology other than invasive ductal or lobular carcinoma, and if death occurred <3 months after diagnosis. A total of 4291 patients was included for analysis. Chi-squared analysis was used to compare patient characteristics. Univariate (UVA) and multivariate (MVA) Cox proportional hazards modeling was used to identify factors associated with survival. Propensity score matching was performed to address confounding variables. Survival analysis was performed using Kaplan-Meier and shared frailty models.Results: Of the 4291 women analyzed, 2030 (47%) received PMRT. On MVA, PMRT (HR 0.72, p < 0.001), chemotherapy (HR 0.51, p < 0.001), and hormone therapy (HR 0.63, p < 0.001) were associated with improved overall survival (OS). After propensity score matching, a matched cohort of 2800 women was analyzed. At 5 years, OS was 83.7% and 79.8% with and without PMRT, respectively (p < 0.001). This difference in OS benefit increased with time. At 10 years, OS was 67.4% and 59.2% with and without PMRT, respectively.Conclusions: PMRT was associated with improved OS in women with pT3NOMO breast cancer, which strongly suggests PMRT may provide a survival advantage and should be considered. (C) 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Single incision approach for breast conservation surgery and sentinel lymph node biopsy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical outcomes in breast cancer (BC) patients (pts) with intermediate Oncotype DX Recurrence Score (RS) results		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Sentinel lymph node examination by using One-Step Nucleic Acid Amplification (OSNA) in special type breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Risk factors for locoregional recurrence after post-mastectomy radiation therapy (PMRT) and chemotherapy in patients with 4 or more metastatic nodes		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Reliability of Sentinel node biopsy in early breast cancer using anatomical landmark only - experience of an Indian rural tertiary care centre Kailash Cancer Hospital and Research Centre		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cancer stem cell marker, CD44 expression in Indian breast carcinoma patients and its association with the molecular subtypes of breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Full dose Intraoperative Radiotherapy in the conservative treatment of breast cancer: a single institution experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The impact of preoperative breast magnetic resonance imaging on the surgical management of newly diagnosed breast cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of ER beta gene in breast carcinoma and the relevance in neoadjuvant therapy	In the present study, we examined the expression of the estrogen receptor beta(ER beta) gene in breast cancer and its relevance in neoadjuvant therapy. In total, 120 breast cancer patients who were hospitalized in the Departments of Breast Disease and Medical Oncology served as the subjects of this study. The subjects were diagnosed with breast cancer phase II to phase IIIA, as confirmed by aspiration biopsy and iconography. The patients were divided into two groups in a randomized control manner, with 60 patients in each group. The experimental group was administered the taxotere + epirubicin + cyclophosphamide (TEC) plan for 3-4 cycles of chemotherapy before the modified radical operation of breast cancer. In the control group, no TEC chemotherapy was carried out prior to operation. Instead, the breast lesion was removed directly by operation. After the operation, the IHC method was used to stain the ER beta protein in the lesion tissue. The patients were classified according to whether the basement membrane was broken through; 5 cases had non-infiltrative carcinoma and 115 cases had infiltrative carcinoma. According to the pathology of the lesion, 114cases had breast ductal carcinoma, 2 cases had mucinous breast carcinoma (of which there were 2 cases combined with ductal carcinoma), and 4 cases had breast lobular carcinoma. The ER beta gene was found to be expressed in normal and breast cancer tissues. When ER beta gene expression was compared before and after the chemotherapy, its expression was significantly increased in breast cancer tissues, which shows a significant statistical difference (P< 0.05). In the experimental group, the expression of ER beta gene in carcinoma tissue was significantly lower than that in the control group, and differences were statistically significant (P< 0.05). Therefore, expression of the ER beta gene in breast carcinoma tissues was high. The application of adjuvant chemotherapy before the modified radical operation for breast carcinoma can significantly lower the level of ER beta expression. The expression levels of ER beta gene in the carcinoma tissue of the patients can be treated as the evaluation index for neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Regarding targeted therapy and corresponding drug development for breast carcinoma, ER beta can act as one of the specific drug targets.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of cancer-associated fibroblast-related proteins differs between invasive lobular carcinoma and invasive ductal carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast reconstruction using modified inferior dermal flap, implant, and nipple areola complex repositioning technique. Experience at MISR Cancer Center		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Correlation between BI-RADS classification and histopathological findings of breast lesions in Albanian women		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Preclinical validation of a new tumor imaging agent targeting alpha v beta 3 to detect breast tumor using NIR-light imaging		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic value of androgen receptor and FOXA1 co-expression in non-metastatic triple-negative breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Tomosynthesis as an alternative to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in assessing invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) multifocality		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A multi-center prospective study of radiofrequency ablation therapy for small breast carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	An integrated molecular analysis of invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic value of breast specific gamma imaging for breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	WNT4 mediates endocrine response and resistance in invasive lobular carcinoma cells		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic Subtypes of Breast Cancer Correlates with Recurrence Score When Divided by Risk Categories		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HER2 Somatic Mutation Analysis in Breast Cancer: Correlation with Clinicopathologic Features		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	"Is Estrogen Receptor Positive (ER plus ) Progesterone Receptor Negative (PR-) Invasive Lobular Carcinoma a Distinct Clinicopathologic Subset?"		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Analysis of CDH1 in Invasive Lobular Carcinoma (ILC): Comparison of Morphology, Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and Mutation Profile Detected by Hybrid Capture-Based Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Progesterone Receptor Expression Is More Prognostic Than Estrogen Receptor and Ki-67 Expression in Invasive Lobular Carcinoma Compared to Invasive Ductal Carcinoma: A Multi-Institutional Study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Improving Visual Quantification of Ki-67 Proliferative Index Using NDER, a Web-Based Training Platform		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histopathologic Correlates of Non-Mass Enhancement Detected by Breast MRI		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Metastatic Breast Carcinoma with Signet-Ring Features versus Gastrointestinal Signet-Ring Tumors: Assessment of Immunohistochemical Markers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Excision Biopsy Diagnosis of Patients with Breast Core Needle Biopsy Findings Reported as Atypical Intraductal Epithelial Proliferations		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cell Cycle Aberrations and Diagnostic Utility of Rb and Cyclin D1 Immunohistochemistry in Mammary Myofibroblastomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic Subtypes of Breast Cancer Correlates with Recurrence Score When Divided by Risk Categories		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Atypical Hyperplasia Diagnosed on Breast Core Biopsy: Long-Term Follow-Up of Patients Not Upgraded to Carcinoma on Excision		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	"Is Estrogen Receptor Positive (ER plus ) Progesterone Receptor Negative (PR-) Invasive Lobular Carcinoma a Distinct Clinicopathologic Subset?"		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer Histologic Grade and Histologic Subtype Impact Recurrence Score; Retrospective Review of 863 Oncotype Dx Results		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Patterns of Recurrence in African-American Women with Lumina! A and Lumina! B Subtype Breast Cancer - A Single Institution Experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Genomic Profiling of Synchronous Bilateral Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oncotype DX Recurrence Score of Special Subtypes of Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BAP1 Immunohistochemistry Differentiates Pleural Mesothelioma Not Only from Reactive Mesothelial Hyperplasia but Also from Metastatic Pleural Tumors		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Effect of Hydrochloric Acid Decalcification on Expression Pattern of Prognostic Markers in Invasive Breast Carcinomas	Context: In the United States, it is estimated that 100,000 people are living with metastatic breast cancer (BC) with bone representing the most common site of involvement. However, patients with isolated bone metastasis at presentation may have a longer survival. Therapeutic options for BC bone metastases often include systemic anticancer therapy (endocrine, chemotherapy, monoclonal antibodies, and/or other targeted therapies), which is largely dependent on the immunohistochemical (IHC) repertoire of the cancer for the prognostic markers [estrogen (ER) and progesterone receptors (PR), Ki-67, p53, and Her-2/neu] at its osseous metastatic site. Traditionally, specimens obtained from the bone metastasis require decalcification, which may affect the immunoreactivity of these prognostic markers. To the best of our knowledge, limited studies describe the effect of decalcification on immunoexpression of the above-mentioned markers. A detailed illustration of the effect of decalcification on BC specimens in a real-time manner is lacking in the literature.Objective: Herein, we sought to determine the impact of decalcification on the IHC expression pattern of the above listed markers on BC tissue following decalcification.Design: After Institutional Review Board approval, sections from the residual tumor specimens were collected prospectively from 15 BC excision specimens and 1 curetting from a BC bone metastasis. The sections (3 to 6 sections/case) for decalcification were collected following routine submission for pathologic evaluation. The sections were subjected to hydrochloric acid (HCl)-based Decal Stat decalcifying solution for 2, 12, 18, and 24 hours in each case. IHC studies for ER, PR, Ki-67, p53, and Her-2/neu were performed on 1 representative section of the regularly processed tumor block and 1 decalcified tumor block from each time point. Scoring of ER and PR were performed according to the Allred scoring system. Scoring of Her-2/neu was performed according to CAP/ASCO guidelines.Results: The tumors comprised 11 grade 3 invasive ductal carcinomas, 2 grade 2 invasive ductal carcinomas, 2 grade 3 invasive lobular carcinoma, and 1 metastatic BC to bone. Nine cases showed Allred score 8 for ER, 1 case showed Allred score 4, 1 case showed Allred score 2, and the remaining 5 were ER negative. For PR, 1 showed Allred score 8, 2 Allred score 7, 4 Allred score 6, 1 each Allred score 5 and score 2 with the remainder negative for PR. Ki-67 ranged from 5% to 95%. Five cases showed p53 overexpression ranging from 35% to 95%. Five cases each showed 3+, 6 cases showed 2+ Her-2/neu, 3 cases showed 1+ Her-2/neu, and the remaining 2 were negative. All specimens demonstrated decline in ER, PR, Ki-67, and p53 immunoreactivity after 2 hours of decalcification, with additional decline up to 24 hours. The most significant declines in immunoreactivity occurred with Ki-67 and p53. Most of the Her-2/ neu cases with an equivocal score declined to zero after 24 hours of decalcification. However, 3 out of 11 cases showing Her-2/ neu overexpression remained at the baseline scoring even after extended (24 h) decalcification.Conclusions: Our results demonstrated that the decalcification process affects the immunoreactivity of the prognostic BC markers. There is progressive loss of reactivity at 2 hours and beyond for markers with lower degrees of expression. In addition, heterogeneity in marker distribution progressed from diffuse to more focal beyond 1 hour.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Midkine and pleiotrophin concentrations in needle biopsies of breast and lung masses	BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: Midkine (MDK) and pleiotrophin (PTN) are two closely related heparin-binding growth factors which are overexpressed in a wide variety of human cancers. We hypothesized that the concentrations of these factors in washout of biopsy needles would be higher in breast and lung cancer than in benign lesions.METHODS: Seventy subjects underwent pre-operative core needle biopsies of 78 breast masses (16 malignancies). In 11 subjects, fine needle aspiration was performed ex vivo on 7 non-small cell lung cancers and 11 normal lung specimens within surgically excised lung tissue. The biopsy needle was washed with buffer for immunoassay.RESULTS: The MDK/DNA and the PTN/DNA ratio in most of the malignant breast masses were similar to the ratios in benign masses except one lobular carcinoma in situ (24-fold higher PTN/DNA ratio than the average benign mass). The MDK/DNA and PTN/DNA ratio were similar in most malignant and normal lung tissue except one squamous cell carcinoma (38-fold higher MDK/DNA ratio than the average of normal lung tissue).CONCLUSIONS: Both MDK and PTN are readily measurable in washout of needle biopsy samples from breast and lung masses and levels are highly elevated only in a specific subset of these malignancies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic accuracy of mammography and mammoscintigraphy with 99m Tc-MIBI in detection of minimal breast cancer	In 437 primary patients with breast cancer (BC) we compared diagnostic accuracy of mammography (MG) and mammoscintigraphy (MCG) with 99mTc-MIBI. All women, included in the study, had lesions suspicious for BC. In 108 suspicious lesions were less than 10 mm in diameter. On histology 33 (30,5%) patients had invasive BC, 20 (18,5%) - noninvasive BC, 6 (5,6%) - lobular carcinoma, 2 (1,9%) mucinous BC, 8 (7,4%) - fibroadenoma and in remained 39 cases (36,1%) localised fibrosis. In the group of women with lesions below 10 mm sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of MG in diagnosis of BC were 72%, 74%, 73%, for MCG - 62%, 51%, 57%. Combination of MG and MCG helped to increase sensitivity to 93,4%. In 53 women with dense breasts sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of MG were 40%, 71,4%, 64%; for MCG two times higher (82%) with specificity of 55% and 60% accuracy. Combination of MG and MCG allowed increasing the sensitivity of diagnosis of minimal BC 2 times more (up to 91%).	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Salivary duct carcinoma with rhabdoid features: a salivary counterpart of pleomorphic lobular carcinoma of the breast	Aim: To analyse the clinicopathological features and immunohistochemical characteristics of nine cases of salivary duct carcinoma (SDC) with rhabdoid features (SDCRF), representing a new, extremely rare type of salivary gland malignancy.Methods and results: We analysed 2511 cases of salivary gland tumour, clinicopathologically and immunohistochemically. The incidence of SDCRF was 0.4%. Eight patients were male. The age of patients ranged from 36 years to 85 years (mean, 61 years). SDC arose from the parotid glands and submandibular gland in six and three cases, respectively. Seven cases appeared as a carcinoma component of carcinoma ex pleomorphic adenoma cases. Six patients died of disease. Histologically, diffuse proliferations of non-coherent large ovoid or polygonal carcinoma cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and eccentric nuclei were observed in all cases; such cytological characteristics were defined as 'rhabdoid features'. Immunohistochemically, all cases were positive for cytokeratin, gross cystic disease fluid protein-15, androgen receptor, and SMARCB1, seven cases were positive for HER2, and two cases were positive for epidermal growth factor receptor. However, all cases were negative for vimentin and myoepithelial markers. Eight cases showed no or aberrant expression of E-cadherin and beta-catenin. The results suggest that SDCRF is an extremely rare subtype of SDC, and not a sarcomatoid variant of SDC. SDCRF is histologically unique, and is positive for SDC markers but negative for vimentin, unlike rhabdoid-type carcinomas arising from other organs.Conclusions: The morphogenesis of SDCRF is related to no or aberrant expression of cell-cell adhesion molecules. Therefore, SDCRF could be a salivary counterpart to pleomorphic lobular breast carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ERBB2 mutation is associated with a worse prognosis in patients with CDH1 altered invasive lobular cancer of the breast	E-cadherin (CDH1) is a glycoprotein that mediates adhesion between epithelial cells and also suppresses cancer invasion. Mutation or deletion of the CDH1 gene has been reported in 30-60% cases of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC). However, little is known about genomic differences between ILC with and without a CDH1 alteration. Therefore, we analyzed whole genome sequencing data of 169 ILC cases from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) to address this deficiency. Our study shows that CDH1 gene was altered in 59.2% (100/169) of ILC. No significant difference was identified between CDH1-altered and -unaltered ILC cases for any of the examined demographic, clinical or pathologic characteristics, including histologic grade, tumor stage, lymph node metastases, or ER/PR/HER2 states. Seven recurrent mutations (PTEN, MUC16, ERBB2, FAT4, PCDHGA2, HERC1 and FLNC) and four chromosomal changes with recurrent copy number variation (CNV) (11q13, 17q12-21, 8p11 and 8q11) were found in ILC, which correlated with a positive or negative CDH1 alteration status, respectively. The prevalence of the most common breast cancer driver abnormalities including TP53 and PIK3CA mutations and MYC and ERBB2 amplifications showed no difference between the two groups. However, CDH1-altered ILC with an ERBB2 mutation shows a significantly worse prognosis compared to its counterparts without such a mutation. Our study suggests that CDH1-altered ILC patients with ERBB2 mutations may represent an actionable group of patients who could benefit from targeted breast cancer therapy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Incidence and Risk Factors for Central Venous Catheter-Related Venous Thromboembolism in Breast Cancer Patients Under Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy: the Caveccas (Catheter Veineux Central et Cancer du Sein) Study	Background: Symptomatic Catheter Related Thrombosis (CRT) occurs in 3-5% of cancer patients with Central Venous Catheters (CVC) and, overall, the incidence of CRT could reach 30% when including asymptomatic cases (1). In women with Breast Cancer (BC), the most frequent cancer in females world-wide, the high risk of Venous Thromboembolism (VTE) during chemotherapy may be related in part to CRT (2). We therefore designed the CAVECCAS (Catheter VEineux Central et CAncer du Sein) study to analyze CRT incidence and CRT risk factors in BC patients with CVC receiving (neo) adjuvant chemotherapy (NAC).Methods: CAVECCAS is a prospective, multicenter cohort study of patients with non metastatic invasive BC undergoing insertion of a single lumen CVC for at least 3 months of NAC. All included patients with signed informed consent between September 2008 and December 2011 underwent repeated double-blind Doppler US evaluation before (D0) and at 7, 30 and 90 days (D) after CVC insertion. In case of VTE symptoms, diagnosis was confirmed by venography, ultrasonography and/or computed tomography. Venous blood samples were systematically drawn before and 2 days after CVC insertion to determine D-Dimers levels (VIDAS (R) D-Dimer Exclusion T (TM)), Platelet-derived MPs (Pd-MPs) and Pd-MPs expressing phosphatidyl serin (Pd-MP/PS+) levels (3), thrombin generation (Calibrated Automated Thrombogram assay (R), Stago) and endogenous thrombin potential (ETP). After completing recruitment and follow-up (D90), a nested case-control study analyzed additional individual thrombophilic risk factors (Antithrombin, Protein C and Protein S levels, presence of Factor V and Factor II Leiden mutations, presence of antiphospholipid, anticardiolipin and anti beta 2GP1 antibodies) using two controls without CRT from the CAVECCAS cohort matched for TNM status with each symptomatic or asymptomatic CRT patient.Statistical analysis used Fisher or Wilcoxon tests for univariate analysis; step down selection procedure with p-values < 0.10 for multivariate models; conditional logistic model to study the occurrence of CRT based on thrombophilia testing (open-source software R Version 2.15.2 (2012-10-26).Results(expressed as median and inter-quartile range [IQR] for quantitative data and numbers and percentages for categorical data). 524 patients with non metastatic BC (85% ductal carcinoma, 12.2% Lobular carcinoma, 2.8% other) with respective T0/T1/T2/T3/T4 staging (0.5%/47.6%/43.3%/8.0%/0.7%), SBR 1/2/3 grading (11.2%/53%/35.8%), 49.2 % having node involvement and 79.5% steroid hormone receptors, were analyzed. During follow-up, the overall CRT incidence rate was 2.18 cases/100 patient-months, with 14 symptomatic and 46 asymptomatic patients, 27, 10 and 9 of the asymptomatic CRT being respectively diagnosed on D8, 30 and day 90 US. In univariate analysis, increased age (> 50 years) (OR, 1.80; 95% CI, 1.01-3.22; p= 0.048), BMI> 30 kg/m(2) (OR, 2.64; 95% CI, 1.46-4.76; p= 0.001) and comorbidities (OR, 2.05; 95% CI, 1.18-3.56; p= 0.011) were associated with CRT. CRT was less frequent in ductal (OR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.28-1.07; p= 0.078) versus lobular carcinoma (OR, 2.53; 95% CI, 1.32-4.85; p= 0.005). In multivariate analysis, BMI> 30 kg/m(2) (OR, 2.66: 99% CI, 1.46-4.84, p= 0.001) and lobular carcinoma histology (OR, 2.56; 95% CI,.32-4.96, p= 0.005) remained CRT risk factors. Pd-MPs (981.5 [518-2147] vs 758.5 [416.5-373] /mL; p< 0.0001) and Pd-MP/PS+(778 [409-1851] vs 730 [380.5-412]/mL; p= 0.021) levels decreased after CVC insertion versus baseline, whileConclusion: In this large sample size study with serial measurements of clinical parameters and biomarkers for thrombosis, only obesity and lobular carcinoma histology appeared strong risk factors for CRT in non metastatic BC treated with NAC. Further studies will elucidate how individual stratification of BC patients may identify those who may benefit from CRT prophylaxis. (C) 2016 by The American Society of Hematology (C) 2016 by The American Society of Hematology	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Hedgehog signaling pathway is associated with poor prognosis in breast cancer patients with the CD44(+)/CD24(-) phenotype	Cancer stem cells (CSCs) have been suggested to serve an important role in tumor recurrence and metastasis in breast cancer. The hedgehog (Hh) signaling pathway is essential for the maintenance of breast CSCs. The present study used immunohistochemistry to investigate the expression of Patched (PTCH) and Gli1, which are the main components of the Hh signaling pathway, as well as the expression of cluster of differentiation (CD)44/CD24, which are markers for breast CSCs, in 266 patients with breast cancer. The combined expression of PTCH and Glil was significantly associated with larger tumors (>2.0 cm; P=0.001), lymph node metastasis (P=0.003), invasive lobular carcinoma (P=0.016) and Grade II-III tumors (P<0.001). In addition, PTCH and Glil expression was associated with lymph node metastasis (P=0.005 and P=0.001) and Grade II-II tumors (P=0.020 and P=0.033) in breast cancer patients with the CD44(+)/CD24(-) phenotype. The expression of PTCH and Glil was also associated with significantly shorter overall survival and disease-free survival (DFS) in breast cancer patients with the CD44(+)/CD24(-) phenotype. Multivariate Cox regression analysis demonstrated that PTCH expression and the CD44(+)/CD24(-) phenotype were independent prognostic factors for decreased DFS in patients with breast cancer. These findings suggest that the Hh signaling pathway in breast CSCs may contribute to the poor outcome of patients with breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ: Current evidence and a systemic review	Pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ (PLCIS) has only recently been identified as a distinct pathological entity within classic lobular carcinoma in situ (CLCIS). As such, there is currently no consensus among clinicians regarding the optimal treatment of this disease. The present study determined the risk of concomitant invasive disease and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) if PLCIS is observed on core needle biopsy (CNB) and collated the evidence regarding the risk of recurrence in relation to surgical margins and adjuvant therapy. In addition, the pertinent literature available through MedLine, PubMed, the WHO Clinical Trials Registry Platform and Gopgle Scholar using appropriate keywords was reviewed. The pooled results of studies in the literature demonstrated a concomitant presence of invasive disease of 40%, and 15% for DCIS. The studies that examined recurrence rates indicated that the risk is reduced with ample resection margins (>2 mm) and adjuvant radiotherapy. However, recent studies raise concerns regarding breast conservation when pursuing clear margins. No level 1 evidence from prospective studies, randomized controlled trials (RCTs), or meta-analyses based on such RCTs was identified. This is a clinical issue that warrants investigation in appropriately powered well designed prospective studies for a satisfactory resolution of all concerns.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	When pathological and radiological correlation is achieved, excision of fibroadenoma with lobular neoplasia on core biopsy is not warranted	Background: The diagnosis and management of lobular neoplasia (LN) including lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH) remains controversial. Current management options after a core needle biopsy (CNB) with lobular neoplasia (LN) incorporating both ALH and LCIS include excision biopsy or careful clinical and radiologic follow up.Methods: A retrospective analysis of the surgical database at Cork University Hospital was performed to identify all core needle biopsies from January 1st 2010 to 31st December 2013 with a diagnosis of FA who subsequently underwent surgical excision biopsy. All cases with associated LN including ALH and classical LCIS were selected. We excluded cases with coexistent ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), invasive carcinoma, LN associated with necrosis, pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ (PLCIS) or lesions which would require excision in their own right (papilloma, radial scar, atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH) or flat epithelial atypia (FEA)). Cases in which the radiologic targeted mass was discordant with a diagnosis of FA were also excluded.Results: 2878 consecutive CNB with a diagnosis of FA were identified. 25 cases had a diagnosis of concomitant ALH or classical LCIS. Our study cohort consisted of 21 women with a mean age 53 years (age range 41-70 years). The core biopsy diagnosis was of LCIS and FA in 16 cases and ALH and FA in 5 cases. On excision biopsy, a FA was confirmed in all 21 cases. In addition to the FA, residual LCIS was present in 14 cases with residual ALH in 2 cases. One of the twenty-one cases (4.8%) was upgraded to invasive ductal carcinoma on excision. (C) 2016 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Upgrade rates of high-risk breast lesions diagnosed on core needle biopsy: a single-institution experience and literature review	Optimal management of high-risk breast lesions detected by mammogram yielding atypical ductal hyperplasia, flat epithelial atypia, atypical lobular hyperplasia, lobular carcinoma in situ, and radial scar without atypia on core needle biopsy is controversial. This is a single-institution retrospective review of 5750 core needle biopsy cases seen over 14.5 years, including 249 (4.3%), 72 (1.3%), 50 (0.9%), 37 (0.6%), and 54 (0.9%) cases of atypical ductal hyperplasia, flat epithelial atypia, atypical lobular hyperplasia, lobular carcinoma in situ, and radial scar without atypia, respectively. Patient age, radiologic characteristics, needle gauge, and excision diagnoses were recorded. Of 462 high-risk cases analyzed, 333 (72%) underwent excision. Upgrade rate to ductal carcinoma in situ, pleomorphic carcinoma in situ, or invasive mammary carcinoma was 18% for atypical ductal hyperplasia, 11% for flat epithelial atypia, 9% for atypical lobular hyperplasia, 28% for lobular carcinoma in situ, and 16% for radial scar. Carcinoma diagnosed on excision was more likely to be in situ than invasive, and if invasive, more likely to be low grade than high grade. Overall, cases that were benign (vs high risk or carcinoma) on excision were less likely to have residual calcifications after biopsy (17% vs 27%, P=0.013), and more likely to have a smaller mass size (< 1 cm) (82% vs 50%, P= 0.001). On subgroup analysis, atypical ductal hyperplasia cases that were benign (vs high risk or carcinoma) on excision were more likely to have smaller mass size (< 1 cm) (P=0.025). Lobular neoplasia diagnosed incidentally (vs targeted) on core needle biopsy was less likely to upgrade on excision (5% vs 39%, P=0.002). A comprehensive literature review was performed, identifying 116 studies reporting high-risk lesion upgrade rates, and our upgrade rates were similar to those of more recent larger studies. Careful radiological-pathological correlation is needed to identify high-risk lesion subgroups that may not need excision.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Value of Coexisting Lobular Carcinoma In Situ With Invasive Lobular Carcinoma	Aims and Objectives:Recent studies show that lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) share similar genetic molecular biology. There are increasing concerns regarding the biological significance of LCIS. The aim of this study is to investigate whether the presence of coexisting LCIS in ILC affects tumor biology and behavior and to correlate it with other clinicopathologic parameters.Materials and Methods:In this study, 254 cases of ILC were included. Clinicopathologic parameters and immunohistochemical stains for estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), E-cadherin, human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2), and MIB-1 of 254 ILC cases were retrieved. The patient with ILC and coexisting LCIS were compared with pure ILC cases with respect to different clinicopathologic parameters.Results:Of the 254 cases, 107 cases were pure ILC and 147 cases were ILC with coexisting LCIS. Seventy-six (76/184, 41.32%) cases showed axillary lymph node metastases. Lymph node metastasis was absent in 108 cases, micrometastasis was present in 5 cases, and stage N1, N2, N3 in 51, 5, and 15 cases, respectively. Nodal involvement, locoregional and distant recurrence of ILC with LCIS were less frequent compared with ILC without LCIS with P-value of 0.034 and 0.007, respectively. The presence of coexisting LCIS in ILC predicted higher disease-free survival (DFS) compared with pure ILC (P=0.034, log-rank test). When divided into different strata, ER-positive ILC cases with associated LCIS cases showed better DFS than ER-positive pure ILC cases (P=0.021, log-rank test). Similarly, ILC cases with LCIS in patient less than 50 years showed better DFS than the patient less than 50 years with pure ILC (P=0.045, log-rank test).Conclusions:In conclusion, ILC coexisting with lobular carcinoma in situ (ILC+LCIS) is characterized by less nodal involvement, lower locoregional, and distant recurrence and better DFS than pure ILC. When divided into different strata, ER-positive and less than 50-year groups with ILC+LCIS show even significant better DFS than pure ILC. These findings suggest that there is biological significance of coexisting LCIS in ILC and that this may have more effect on tumor aggressiveness in certain strata of ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Rare Case of Gastric Outlet Obstruction in Stage IV Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Metastatic Breast Cancer to the Colon		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Gastric Metastasis of Lobular Carcinoma Presenting as Symptomatic Anemia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Colonic Metastasis from Primary Lobular Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Predictors of Receipt of Regional Nodal Irradiation in Patients With Pathologic Complete Response in the Axilla to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Role of Immunohistochemistry in Diagnosis in Breast Pathology		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lymphovascular Invasion in Breast Cancer and its Association with Other Pathological Variables		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast intraductal papillomas without atypia in radiologic-pathologic concordant core-needle biopsies: Rate of upgrade to carcinoma at excision	BACKGROUNDThe surgical management of mammary intraductal papilloma without atypia (IDP) identified at core-needle biopsy (CNB) is controversial. This study assessed the rate of upgrade to carcinoma at surgical excision (EXC).METHODSThis study identified women with a CNB diagnosis of intraductal papilloma without atypia or carcinoma at a cancer center between 2003 and 2013. Radiologic-pathologic concordance was assessed for all cases, and discordant cases were excluded. The radiologic and clinicopathologic features of patients with a CNB diagnosis of IDP were correlated with an upgrade to carcinoma at EXC.RESULTSThe study population consists of 189 women with 196 IDPs; 166 women (171 IDPs) underwent EXC. The upgrade rate was 2.3% (4 of 171). The upgraded lesions were 2 invasive lobular carcinomas and 2 cases of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). One case of DCIS involved the residual IDP, whereas the other 3 carcinomas were8mm away. Twenty-four women (25 IDPs) did not undergo EXC and had stable imaging on follow-up (median, 23.5 months).CONCLUSIONSThe upgrade rate at EXC for IDPs diagnosed at CNB with radiologic-pathologic concordance was 2.3%. These findings suggest that observation is appropriate for patients with radiologic-pathologic concordant CNB yielding IDP, regardless of its size. Cancer 2016. (c) 2016 American Cancer Society. Cancer 2016;122:2819-2827. (c) 2016 American Cancer Society	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Accuracy of the duration of tissue formalin fixation and the molecular profiles of primary breast cancers in a tertiary hospital of Rwanda		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma with an initial presentation of metastases to uterus and both adnexa		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Radiation-induced angiosarcoma and atypical vascular lesion of the breast: Case report and meta-analysis of observational studies		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer incidence, demographic, and pathological characteristics in Bosnia and Herzegovina		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	LACTOFERRIN EXPRESSION IN BREAST CANCER IN RELATION TO BIOLOGIC PROPERTIES OF TUMORS AND CLINICAL FEATURES OF DISEASE	Aim: To determine the patterns of lactoferrin (LF) expression in breast cancer (BC) in relation to biologic properties of the neoplasms and clinical features of the disease course. Materials and Methods: Clinical specimens of 266 BC patients (115 patients with BC of stages I-II - retrospective study, and 151 BC patients-prospective study) were analyzed. Morphological, immunohistochemical and statistical methods were used. Results: The number of LF-positive tumors in retrospective and prospective groups was similar (52.1 and 52.8%, respectively). Among common clinical criteria for prognosis of the disease outcome in BC patients (patient's age; stage of the disease; histological type, differentiation grade, receptor status; presence of metastases), a strong correlation was found only between expression indexes of LF and estrogen receptors (ER). In ER-positive tumors expression of LF was significantly higher than in ER-negative tumors (35 vs 18%). 5-Year survival rate of BC patients was higher in LF-positive group (70 vs 52% in LF-negative group). The presence of regional metastasis tended to correlate with an increased number of LF-positive tumors. In the patients with invasive ductal carcinoma, expression level of LF moderately correlated with occurrence of luminal A subtype (r = 0.43), while in the patients with invasive lobular carcinoma this index strongly correlated with occurrence of luminal B subtype (r = 0.71). LF expression correlated positively with low and moderate differentiation grade of luminal B or basal tumors, and negatively with luminal B or basal tumors of high differentiation grade (r = -0.57 and -0.63, respectively). Conclusion: It has been shown that LF expression in breast tumors correlated with life expectancy of BC patients and important physiologic and clinical features of the disease, while the character of such relation strongly depended on molecular phenotype of tumor, i.e. luminal A, luminal B or basal.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Nonamplification ERBB2 genomic alterations in 5605 cases of recurrent and metastatic breast cancer: An emerging opportunity for anti-HER2 targeted therapies	BACKGROUNDActivating, nonamplification ERBB2 mutations (ERBB2mut) are not detected by immunohistochemistry (IHC) or fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), but are detected by DNA sequencing and may predict clinical responses to human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2)-targeted therapy. The authors queried 5605 advanced/metastatic breast cancers (mBC) to uncover the frequency of ERBB2mut genomic alterations. Clinical responses to anti-HER2 therapeutics were identified.METHODSDNA was extracted from 40 mu m of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) sections. Comprehensive genomic profiling (CGP) was used to evaluate up to 315 genes (592x mean coverage depth). Results were analyzed for base substitutions, short indels, copy number changes, and selected rearrangements.RESULTSOf 5605 cases, 698 (12.5%) featured ERBB2 alterations, including 596 (10.6%) ERBB2 amplifications (ERBB2amp) and 138 (2.4%) ERBB2mut; 38 cases (0.7%) had co-occurring ERBB2amp and ERBB2mut. ERBB2mut predominantly affected the kinase (124 cases; 90%) or extracellular (15 cases; 11%) domains. Both primary BC (52 cases; 38%) and metastatic site biopsies (86 cases; 62%) were found to harbor ERBB2mut, which were distributed across carcinoma not otherwise specified (NOS) (69 cases; 50%), invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) (40 cases; 29%), invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) (27 cases; 20%), and mucinous mBC (2 cases; 1%). Genes commonly coaltered with ERBB2 were tumor protein 53 (TP53) (49%); phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit alpha (PIK3CA) (42%); cadherin 1, type 1 (CDH1) (37%); MYC (17%); and cyclin D1 protein (CCND1) (16%). CDH1 mutations were enriched in ERBB2mut mBC (P<0.0006) and associated with recurrent mBC. Selected patients with ERBB2mut, without ERBB2amp, who responded to anti-HER2 targeted therapies are presented herein.CONCLUSIONSWithin this large series, 1.8% of cases harbored ERBB2mut, which are undetectable by standard-of-care IHC or FISH tests. Metastatic BC driven by ERBB2mut respond to anti-HER2 targeted therapies, and expanding clinical trials designed to detect ERBB2mut by CGP and optimize targeted treatments are warranted. Cancer 2016. (c) 2016 American Cancer Society. Cancer 2016;122:2654-2662. (c) 2016 American Cancer Society. Nonamplification ERBB2 mutations cannot be detected by standard-of-care immunohistochemistry or fluorescence in situ hybridization, although the presence of these alterations may predict response to human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-targeted therapy. In a series of 5605 metastatic breast cancers, 2.4% of all cases and 20% of cases with ERBB2 alterations were found to harbor nonamplification mutations, which represents a substantial patient population who may benefit from human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-targeted therapies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Hypercalcemic crisis associated with anastrozole use in a patient with breast cancer and primary hyperparathyroidism		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	In a cohort of breast cancer screened patients the proportion of HER2 positive cases is lower than that earlier reported and pathological characteristics differ between HER2 3+and HER2 2+/Her2 amplified cases	Human epithelial growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) overexpression and/or amplification is of predictive and prognostic value in infiltrating breast carcinoma (IBC). We evaluated the proportion of HER2-positive cases (score 3 overexpression/score 2 plus fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) amplification) in a consecutive series of 2163 patients. According to immunohistochemical analysis of HER2 expression, using Herceptest and FDA criteria, 839 cases had score 0, 476 score 1+, 699 score 2+, and 149 score 3+. Of the 699 scoring 2+ cases, 160 (22.88 %) showed Her2 gene amplification by FISH analysis, making a total of 309 (14.28 %) HER2-positive cases. Grade 1 ductal and special type IBC were never HER2 positive, while only three infiltrating lobular carcinomas but a relevant percentage of small IBC were HER2 positive. Of HER2-positive cases, 52.1 % was pT1 and of these, 38.5 % was pT1b or smaller. Logistic regression analysis revealed that estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR), grade, and pT were significantly associated with HER2 positivity and that HER2 3+ cases were more frequently of higher grade and pT than HER2 2+/Her2 amplified cases. In addition, HER2 3+ cases were more frequently in ER and PgR negative than HER2 2+/Her2 amplified cases. We conclude that the proportion of HER2 positive cases is lower than that reported in older literature and that pathological characteristics differ between HER2 3+ and HER2 2+/Her2 amplified cases.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	WNT4 mediates endocrine response and resistance in invasive lobular carcinoma cell lines and patient tumor explants		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Systematic in vivo analysis of PI3K pathway aberrations in a mouse model of invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The pattern of invasive lobular carcinoma in the patients diagnosed with breast cancer from Balochistan	INTRODUCTION: Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is the second most common type of breast cancer accounting for 5%-15% of all the breast cancer cases. The present study was performed on 171 breast cancer patients from Balochistan registered in CENAR (Center for Nuclear Medicine and Radiotherapy), Quetta. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Written consent was obtained from the patients. The history of the disease was taken from the patients, and the patients' enrollment files were retrieved. RESULTS: Of the 171 patients, 5 (2.96%) were diagnosed with ILC with tumor Grade II, and stage of the cancer reported was Grade III in all the 5 patients affected with ILC. CONCLUSION: ILC is the second most common type of breast cancer diagnosed with comparatively lower grade but almost reported infiltrating.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The pattern of prognostic and risk indicators among women with breast cancer undergoing modified radical mastectomy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania	Background: Breast cancer is the commonest female malignancy globally and the second (after uterine cervix) in sub-Saharan Africa including Tanzania. Prognostic indicators reportedly influence post-mastectomy adjuvant therapy by predicting risks on survival and recurrence although in Tanzania this data is lacking. Here, we evaluate the pattern of prognostic and risk indicators among women with breast cancer undergoing modified-radical-mastectomy (MRM) at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) and Tumaini Hospital (TH), Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.Methods: This hospital-based prospective cross-sectional study included female patients undergoing MRM from April 2011 to January 2012. Clinical stage I-III patients were enrolled after being scheduled for mastectomy. Patients with evidence of distant metastasis (stage IV) were excluded. Mastectomy and axillary lymph nodes biopsies were submitted to the Histopathology laboratory for grade, type, nodal and margins status. Data was collected using a structured questionnaire and analyzed using SPSS.Results: A total of 348 patients were admitted with breast cancer including 86 patients (with 16 from TH having similar demography and presentation) meeting inclusion criteria. Age-range at diagnosis was 28-79 years, mean 52.1 years. Most (89 %) attained menarche after 11 years. About 56 % were postmenopausal. The majority (78 %) were multiparous with positive family history in 14.1 and 37.6 % used hormonal contraceptives. About 27.1 % were social alcohol drinkers. The majority (61 %) had T4b disease, 75.6 % had positive axillary nodes including 42.7 % with 4-9 involved nodes (N2). The commonest (91.9 %) histological type was invasive ductal carcinoma. Lobular, medullary and mucinous carcinomas were rare. Most (83.7 %) of our patients presented with stage III and the rest stage II. Intermediate-and high-grade tumors accounted for 73.5 %. Following MRM, 25 % of our patients had positive surgical margins and similarly for the base.Conclusions: Most of our breast cancer patients present with frequent risks including younger age, multiparity, hormonal contraceptives use, alcohol use and family history. Unfavourable prognostic indicators including late stages, large primary tumor size, skin infiltration, positive surgical margins, positive axillary lymph nodes and a high histological grade were associated.A sustainable screening program by self-examination to allow early diagnosis is needed to reduce morbidity and mortality from this cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Modeling invasive lobular breast carcinoma by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated somatic genome editing of the mammary gland	Large-scale sequencing studies are rapidly identifying putative oncogenic mutations in human tumors. However, discrimination between passenger and driver events in tumorigenesis remains challenging and requires in vivo validation studies in reliable animal models of human cancer. In this study, we describe a novel strategy for in vivo validation of candidate tumor suppressors implicated in invasive lobular breast carcinoma (ILC), which is hallmarked by loss of the cell-cell adhesion molecule E-cadherin. We describe an approach to model ILC by intraductal injection of lentiviral vectors encoding Cre recombinase, the CRISPR/Cas9 system, or both in female mice carrying conditional alleles of the Cdh1 gene, encoding for E-cadherin. Using this approach, we were able to target ILC-initiating cells and induce specific gene disruption of Pten by CRISPR/Cas9-mediated somatic gene editing. Whereas intraductal injection of Cas9-encoding lentiviruses induced Cas9-specific immune responses and development of tumors that did not resemble ILC, lentiviral delivery of a Pten targeting single-guide RNA (sgRNA) in mice with mammary gland-specific loss of E-cadherin and expression of Cas9 efficiently induced ILC development. This versatile platform can be used for rapid in vivo testing of putative tumor suppressor genes implicated in ILC, providing new opportunities for modeling invasive lobular breast carcinoma in mice.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Time trends in incidence rates and survival of newly diagnosed stage IV breast cancer by tumor histology: a population-based analysis	Few contemporary data are available that compare incidence and survival of metastatic breast cancer between ductal and lobular carcinomas. Using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-9 registries, we identified 10,639 patients with de novo metastatic breast cancer diagnosed from 1990 to 2011. Annual age-adjusted incidence rates and annual percent changes (APCs) were analyzed. Multivariable Cox regression models were used to investigate the impact of year of diagnosis and histology on overall survival. 9250 (86.9 %) patients had ductal and 1389 (13.1 %) had lobular carcinomas. Metastatic breast cancer incidence increased slightly over time for ductal (APC = +1.7, 95 % confidence interval (CI) = +1.0 to +2.4) and lobular carcinomas (APC = +3.0, 95 % CI = +1.8 to +4.3). Median overall survival was 22 months among the whole cohort. More recent year of diagnosis was associated with better overall survival only for patients with ductal carcinomas (interaction p value = 0.006), with an adjusted hazard ratio of death for every five-year increment in the date of diagnosis of 0.93 (95 % CI = 0.91-0.95) among ductal carcinomas, compared with 1.05 (95 % CI = 0.95-1.10) among lobular carcinomas. Overall survival was longer for lobular versus ductal carcinomas (28 versus 21 months, respectively; adjusted hazard ratio of death = 0.93, 95 % CI = 0.87-0.99), but the magnitude of this effect was attenuated among the cohort restricted to hormone receptor-positive tumors. In this population-based analysis, incidence rates of metastatic breast cancer at presentation increased slightly over time for both histologies, and particularly for lobular tumors. A modest improvement in metastatic breast cancer median overall survival was observed, but was apparently limited to ductal carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of histological subtype in hormone receptor positive metastatic breast cancer: similar survival but different therapeutic approaches	Introduction: This study describes the differences between the two largest histological breast cancer subtypes (invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) and invasive (mixed) lobular carcinoma (ILC) with respect to patient and tumor characteristics, treatment-choices and outcome in metastatic breast cancer.Results: Patients with ILC were older at diagnosis of primary breast cancer and had more often initial bone metastasis (46.5% versus 34.8%, P = 0.01) and less often multiple metastatic sites compared to IDC (23.7% versus 30.9%, P = 0.11). Six months after diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer, 28.1% of patients with ILC and 39.8% of patients with IDC had received chemotherapy with a longer median time to first chemotherapy for those with ILC (P = 0.001). After six months 84.8% of patients with ILC had received endocrine therapy versus 72.5% of patients with IDC (P = 0.0001). Median overall survival was 29 months for ILC and 25 months for IDC (P = 0.53).Materials and Methods: We included 437 patients with hormone receptorpositive IDC and 131 patients with hormone receptor-positive ILC, all diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer between 2007-2009, irrespective of date of the primary diagnosis. Patient and tumor characteristics and data on treatment and outcome were collected. Survival curves were obtained using the Kaplan-Meier method.Conclusions: Treatment strategies of hormone receptor-positive metastatic breast cancer were remarkably different for patients with ILC and IDC. Further research is required to understand tumor behavior and treatment-choices in real-life.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of diagnostic performance of dbPET and WB-PET/CT in detection of breast cancer according to histological grade/histopathological classification		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Relationship between FDG uptake on PET, tumor histology, and Ki-67 proliferation index in patients with breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Analysis of data from three centers in Turkey on intraoperative radiotherapy of breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Retrospective analysis of factors affecting survival in Egyptian patients aged >= 65 years with non metastatic breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Long term effects of taxanes based neoadjuvant chemotherapy in advanced non-metastatic breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of therapeutic mammoplasty in a breast screening unit in the United Kingdom: A two-year review		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	An analysis of the necessity to surgically excise fibroadenomas containing LCIS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Is excision biopsy of fibroadenomas based solely on size criteria warranted?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast MRI in invasive lobular carcinoma: A useful investigation in surgical planning?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of surgery to remove the primary tumor in patients with metastatic breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Utilisation of reverse phase protein array analysis to identify signalling pathways activated in lobular breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast conserving surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy: Where do we stand?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Isolated radial scar diagnosis by core-needle biopsy: Is surgical excision necessary?	Purpose: Radial scar and radial sclerosis (RS) are considered benign breast lesions with proliferative features. There is sparse literature on frequency of cancer upgrade in these patients without atypical features found on image-guided needle biopsy. This study retrospectively reviews cases of isolated RS diagnosed on needle biopsy and evaluates the cancer upgrade after subsequent surgical excision.Methods: We conducted a retrospective cross-sectional study of cases with an isolated RS diagnosis based on needle biopsy and subsequent surgical pathology among all patients between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2013. Patients with concomitant atypia, lobular carcinoma in situ on core biopsy, complete excision of very small RS with needle biopsy, and radiology-pathology discordance were excluded. An upgrade from the needle biopsy of RS was defined as surgical excision pathology that revealed ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), and/or invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC).Results: 10,921 image-guided needle biopsy pathology reports were collected and 88 patients (0.81 %) were identified as having isolated RS. Of these 88 patients, 63 (72 %) underwent excision. The upgrade rate to cancer on subsequent surgical excision was 1.59 % (1/63) for DCIS; 0 % (0/63) for IDC; and 0 % (0/63) ILC. Twenty-five patients who did not undergo surgical excision had stable imaging studies with mean (+/- SD) 26 (+/- 20) months follow up.Conclusions: Isolated radial scar on needle biopsy may not warrant routine surgical excision given relatively low cancer upgrade rates. Advancement in breast imaging, pathology and multidisciplinary approaches to care may effectively guide non-surgical management of RS.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	An epithelial to mesenchymal transition programme does not usually drive the phenotype of invasive lobular carcinomas	Epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a cellular phenotype switching phenomenon which occurs during normal development and is proposed to promote tumour cell invasive capabilities during tumour progression. Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is a histological special type of breast cancer with a peculiar aetiology - the tumour cells display an invasive growth pattern, with detached, single cells or single files of cells, and a canonical feature is the loss of E-cadherin expression. These characteristics are indicative of an EMT or at the very least that they represent some plasticity between phenotypes. While some gene expression profiling data support this view, the tumour cells remain epithelial and limited immunohistochemistry data suggest that EMT markers may not feature prominently in ILC. We assessed the expression of a panel of EMT markers (fibronectin, vimentin, N-cadherin, smooth muscle actin, osteonectin, Snail, Twist) in 148 ILCs and performed a meta-analysis of publically available molecular data from 154 ILCs. Three out of 148 (2%) ILCs demonstrated an early and coordinated alteration of multiple EMT markers (down-regulation of E-cadherin, nuclear TWIST, and up-regulation of vimentin, osteonectin, and smooth muscle actin). However, the data overall do not support a role for EMT in defining the phenotypic peculiarities of the majority of ILCs. Copyright (c) 2015 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Coexistent Isolated Tumor Cell Clusters of Infiltrating Lobular Carcinoma and Benign Glandular Inclusions of Mullerian (Endosalpingiosis) Type in an Axillary Sentinel Node: Case Report and Review of the Literature	The presence of benign epithelial inclusions in axillary lymph nodes coexistant with breast disease is a rare event; however, their presence makes the assessment of nodal disease diagnostically challenging. Broadly, these inclusions can be classified as glandular (mullerian type or nonmullerian type), mixed glandular-squamous, and squamous. Among these the presence of benign mullerian-type glandular inclusions with concurrent breast parenchymal disease is an exceedingly rare event, with 10 previous cases reported in the literature, 2 coexisting with infiltrating ductal-type mammary carcinoma in axillary lymph nodes. Here, we report the first case of coexistent invasive lobular carcinoma and endosalpingiosis in an axillary lymph node.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pathologic findings of follow-up surgical excision for radial scar on breast core needle biopsy	The data regarding radial scar (RS) as a risk factor for breast cancer are conflicting, and it is unclear whether an excision is warranted for patients with RS identified on core needle biopsy (CNB). In this study, we investigated the follow-up excisional results for patients with RS on CNB with no history of or concurrent breast cancer or atypical proliferative lesions. The study cohort was composed of 403 such cases, and follow-up excision (PUB) was performed in 220 (54.6%). There was no significant difference in the radiologic findings in cases with and without PUB. Of the 220 cases with FUE, only 2 (0.9%) were upgraded to malignancy (1 invasive carcinoma and 1 ductal carcinoma in situ), whereas 44 cases (20.0%) were upgraded to atypical ductal hyperplasia and 13 cases (5.9%) to lobular neoplasia. Upgrades were associated with greater age but not with any other variable. This is one of the largest studies to evaluate excisional findings in patients with RS identified on CNB but no history of or concurrent breast cancer or atypical proliferative lesions, and the extremely low malignancy-upgrade rate indicates that conservative follow-up with imaging rather than surgical excisions may be more appropriate for these patients. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Incidence of metachronous contralateral breast cancer in the Canton of Zurich: a population-based study of the cancer registry	Purpose To examine the incidence and characteristics of metachronous contralateral breast cancer (CBC) among women in the Canton of Zurich, Switzerland.Methods For 1980-2006, patients with unilateral invasive breast cancer (UBC) were analysed for metachronous CBC. Poisson's regression was used to estimate incidence rates of metachronous CBC according to age, year of diagnosis, follow-up period since first breast cancer and morphology.Results Of 16,323 patients with UBC, 700 (4.3 %) developed a second malignant tumour of the opposite breast. Median age at first breast cancer was lower in the CBC group than in the full cohort. Median interval time between first and second breast cancer was 5.5 (interquartile range 2.6-10.1) years. Incidence rate at age 20-29 was 1006 (95 % confidence interval, CI, 452-2238) cases per 100,000 person-years and decreased to 299 (199-450) at 80-84. Age-adjusted incidence rates according to period of diagnosis decreased from 618 (530-721) for 1980-1984 to 329 (217-500) cases per 100,000 person-years for 2005-2006. Incidence rate ratio of CBC for lobular carcinoma was 1.28 (95 % CI 0.99-1.67) adjusted by age group and period of diagnosis compared to ductal carcinoma.Conclusions In our study, incidence rates for CBC are comparable with findings from the literature. A reduction in the incidence of metachronous CBC, thought to be due to adjuvant therapies, is seen in our data. In our cohort, younger age and lobular carcinoma were associated with an increased risk of CBC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Phenotype and Immunophenotype Analysis of Gene Expression Defined "Indolent Risk" Breast Cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	GATA3 Expression Is Correlated with AR and ER Expression and Negatively Correlated with Nuclear Grade in Mammary Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer in Women over 75: An Evaluation of Predictive Markers and Aggressive Subtypes in Non Screen Detected Cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Correlation of p16 Expression on Cancer and Stromal Cells with Clinicopathological and Immunohistochemical Features of Lobular Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Feasibility of Using Confocal Fluorescence Microscopy for Imaging Breast Tissue in Surgical Pathology Practice		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Papillomas without Atypia: Can Excision Be Spared?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Extracapsular Extension and Lymphovascular Invasion in Breast Cancer Sentinel Lymph Nodes Is Associated with Non Sentinel Lymph Node Metastases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Analysis of Estrogen Receptor (ER) Immunohistochemistry (IHC) in Breast Cancer with ESR1 Mutations Detected by Hybrid Capture-Based Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical-Pathologic Analysis of Luminal B Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Detection of Gene Amplifications in Invasive Breast Cancers by SNP-based Chromosomal Microarray		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Correlation of p16 Expression on Cancer and Stromal Cells with Clinicopathological and Immunohistochemical Features of Lobular Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Extracapsular Extension and Lymphovascular Invasion in Breast Cancer Sentinel Lymph Nodes Is Associated with Non Sentinel Lymph Node Metastases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PD-L1 Protein Expression and PD-L1 Gene Amplification in Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	"Triple Negative" Breast Cancers vs. "Quadruple Negative" Breast Cancers: The Androgen Receptor Factor		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Eliminating "ductal carcinoma in situ" and "lobular carcinoma in situ" (DCIS and LCIS) terminology in clinical breast practice: The cognitive psychology point of view	There is evidence from the literature that the terms "ductal carcinoma in situ" and "lobular carcinoma in situ" (DCIS and LCIS) should be eliminated in clinical breast cancer practice and replaced with the new "ductal intraepithelial neoplasia" (DIN) and "lobular intraepithelial neoplasia" (LIN) terminology. The main purpose of the present article is to expand on this argument from a cognitive psychology perspective and offer suggestions for further research, emphasizing how the elimination of the term "carcinoma" in "in situ" breast cancer diagnoses has the potential to reduce both patient and health care professional confusion and misperceptions that are often associated with the DCIS and LCIS diagnoses, as well as limit the adverse psychological effects of women receiving a DCIS or LCIS diagnosis. We comment on the recent peer-reviewed literature on the clinical implications and psychological consequences for breast cancer patients receiving a DCIS or LCIS diagnosis and we use a cognitive perspective to offer new insight into the benefits of embracing the new DIN and LIN terminology. Using cognitive psychology and cognitive science in general, as a foundation, further research is advocated in order to yield data in support of changing the terminology and therefore, offer a chance to significantly improve the lives and psychological sequelae of women facing such a diagnosis. Typology: Controversies/Short Commentary (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Inflammatory Breast Cancer: A Distinct Clinicopathological Entity Transcending Histological Distinction	IntroductionAlthough well recognized in breast oncology literature, histologic subtypes have not been previously described in inflammatory breast cancer (IBC). The purpose of this study was to describe lobular subtype in IBC and assess the impact of histology on patient outcomes.MethodsWe performed a retrospective analysis of 659 IBC patients at MD Anderson Cancer Center between January 1984 and December 2009. Patients with Invasive Lobular, Mixed Invasive Ductal and Lobular, or Invasive Ducal Carcinomas (ILC, MIC, IDC, respectively) comprise the subject of this report. Patient characteristics and survival estimates were compared by using chi-square test and Kaplan-Meier method with log-rank statistic. Cox proportional hazards models were fit to determine association of histology with outcomes after adjustment for other characteristics.ResultsA total of 30, 37, and 592 patients were seen to have invasive lobular, mixed, or ductal histology, respectively. Grade 3 tumors were more common in the ductal group (78%) than in the lobular (60%) or mixed (61%) group (P = 0.01). The 3-year overall survival rates were 68%, 64%, and 62% in the lobular, mixed, and ductal groups, respectively (P = 0.68). After adjustment, histology did not have a significant effect on death in the lobular group (HR = 0.70, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.26-1.94; P = 0.50) or mixed group (HR = 0.53, 95% CI: 0.25-1.13; P = 0.10) compared with the ductal group.ConclusionIn this cohort of IBC patients, lobular histology was seen in 4.5% cases. Histology does not appear to have a significant effect on survival outcomes in IBC patients, unlike in patients with non-inflammatory breast cancer (n-IBC), indicating the distinct biological behavior of the IBC phenotype.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Talc seromadesis in patients with chronic seroma formation after breast surgery	Background: Seroma formation, after breast surgery is a commonly seen complication with an incidence ranging from 10 to 85 %. In general, though seroma usually disappears within several weeks, some patients are troubled with chronic seroma. Seroma predisposes to infection leading to wound related complications and may also delay adjuvant chemoradiation, leading to less effective breast cancer treatment.Case description: A 52-years-old Dutch woman presenting with a pT3N1M0 infiltrating lobular breast carcinoma received neo-adjuvant chemotherapy, following modified radical mastectomy with sentinel node procedure. She suffered from chronic seroma formation, delaying adjuvant radiation therapy. We successfully performed talc seromadesis to eliminate seroma formation. During six-month follow-up, no seroma was detected.Discussion and evaluation: Talc seromadesis after breast surgery is a rarely described in literature. In order to develop this technique further research aimed to evaluate its effectiveness on safety and possible later breast reconstruction must be carried out.Conclusion: Talc seromadesis may be a safe, cost effective and minimally invasive solution to treat chronic seroma after breast surgery.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Distant metastases from invasive lobular breast carcinoma classic type - treatment and prognosis	Introduction: Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) comprises 4-15% of all malignant neoplasms of the breast. The "classical variant of ILC" (C-ILC) constitutes some 60-80% of this cancer. The main cause of treatment failures is dissemination observed in 8-38% patients The disant metastases (DM) are frequently localized in: bones, gastrointestinal tract, uterus, leptomeninges, and ovaries. The aim of this study was to present the methods and results of the treatment of patients with DM from the classical variant of ILC (C-ILC) at a single institution in Poland. Materials and Methods: Between January 1983 and December 2004, 210 women with C-ILC of the breast were primarily treated surgically (mastectomy in 182 (86.7%) patients and breast conserving therapy in 28 (13.3%) patients). Then adjuvant therapy (radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and hormonotherapy) was applied according to presence of clinical indications. Results: The present study focused on a group of 41 patients with a median age of 59 that died with DM from C-ILC during the ten-year follow-up. This failure developed on average 65 months (3-186) after surgery of ILC. The most frequently DM developed: bones (39.1%), GI (small bowell, stomach, colon, rectum) - 31.8%, and reproductive organs (ovary, uterus) - 19.1%. In therapy of DM, different configuration surgery, radiotherapy, and chemo-hormonotherapy were used. The median survival after the diagnosis of DM was connected with localization of distant metastases. Conclusion: Patients with classic variant of infiltrate lobular cancer of breast should be regularly follow-up, which could permit early diagnosis of distant metastases and improve treatment results.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Bilateral male breast cancer: a case presenting with synchronous invasive lobular carcinoma and invasive ductal carcinoma	Synchronous bilateral male breast cancer is a very rare entity and invasive lobular carcinoma is less common in male breast cancer (MBC) than in female breast cancer (FBC). A 51-year-old man presented with a palpable mass in the left breast was finally diagnosed synchronous bilateral MBC, one an invasive lobular carcinoma and the other an invasive ductal carcinoma. It remains a matter of debate whether invasive lobular carcinoma has better or worse outcome than invasive ductal carcinoma, so that clinicopathological characteristics of tumors are used to evaluate the risk of recurrence. In our case, an unusually small invasive ductal carcinoma with a low level of proliferation had already developed many axillary lymph node metastases in spite of dire clinicopathological characteristics of the invasive lobular carcinoma of the left breast determined during the first treatment, while the invasive ductal carcinoma of the right breast was thought to have developed distant metastasis. We report the first case of synchronous bilateral MBC, one an invasive lobular carcinoma and the other an invasive ductal carcinoma, and discuss about the unusual clinicopathological characteristics of these two tumors.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of thyroid hormone responsive spot 14 homolog and thyroid hormone receptor beta 1 in human breast cancer tissues and its clinical significance	Aims: The present study is to investigate the expression of thyroid hormone responsive spot 14 homolog (Thrsp) and thyroid hormone receptor beta 1 (TR beta 1) proteins in human breast cancer tissues and adjacent tissues, as well as its relationship with clinical pathological data of breast cancer patients. Methods: A total of 112 Uygur and Han patients with breast invasive ductal carcinoma and lobular carcinoma who were diagnosed by pathology and underwent radical surgery at the Fifth Affiliated Hospital or the Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University between January 2012 and January 2015 were randomly selected into the present study. Expression of Thrsp and TR beta 1 was determined using immunohistochemical staining. The correlation of the expression of Thrsp and TR beta 1 with the clinical and pathological data of the patients was analyzed using chi(2) test. The correlation between Thrsp protein expression and TR beta 1 protein expression was also investigated. Results: The positive expression rate of Thrsp in breast cancer tissues was higher than that in tumor-adjacent tissues, but the positive expression rate of TR beta 1 in breast cancer tissues was lower than that in tumor-adjacent tissues. Thrsp and TR beta 1 were mainly expressed in the nucleus, with only a little being expressed in the cytoplasm. Expression of Thrsp or TR beta 1 was correlated with different clinical and pathological data of breast cancer patients. Thrsp protein expression was related with TR beta 1 protein expression in breast cancer tissues. Conclusions: The present study demonstrates that TR beta 1 and Thrsp are not independent prognostic factors for breast cancer. Thyroid hormone/TR beta 1/Thrsp may be involved in energy and substance metabolisms in breast cancer cells, and affect their mitotic process.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Fine needle aspiration cytology of signet ring cells in breast carcinoma: a cytohistological study of 11 cases	Signet ring cell (SRC) carcinoma is a unique subtype of adenocarcinoma; however, the clinicopathological profiles of SRCs in breast carcinoma are yet to be determined. Here, we investigated cyto-histological findings of 11 breast carcinoma cases with SRCs comprising more than 20% of the tumor cells; invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) (n=4), invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) (n=4), pleomorphic lobular carcinoma (PLC) (n=1), and mucinous carcinoma (MC) (n=2). The mean age of the patients was 60.2 +/- 13 years, and the mean tumor size was 2.0 +/- 0.8 cm. Three cases of IDC, 1 PLC, and 1 of MC had grade 2 or 3 nuclear atypia, whereas 1 case of IDC, 4 of ILC, and 1 of MC had grade 1 nuclear atypia. Axillary lymph nodes were positive for metastatic carcinoma in 1 patient with IDC and 1 with ILC. In fine needle aspiration smears, intracytoplasmic lumen (ICL) type SRCs were found to be major constituents of SRCs in ILC and PLC, while non-ICL type SRCs were predominant in IDC. MC tumors had SRCs of both ICL and non-ICL types. During our follow-up period ranging from 97 to 3650 (mean 1458 +/- 1055) days, all the patients were alive without recurrence of the tumor. Our results indicate that the nature of SRCs may vary with the histological subtype of breast cancer, but its presence may not indicate poor prognosis. A large study with more cases of breast cancer with SRCs for a longer period may be needed to determine the clinical significance of SRCs.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinoma Mimicking Papillary Carcinoma: A Report of Three Cases	Encapsulated and solid papillary carcinomas (EPCs and SPCs) are considered historically as a special form of ductal carcinoma in situ. Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is characterised by a discohesive growth pattern. There are several variants of ILC, but, as yet, no papillary subtype has been identified. Here we report 3 cases of ILC presenting as papillary carcinoma (PC) with a typical solid papillary growth pattern. One case was reported on core biopsy as EPC (B5a). The 3 ensuing resection specimens showed features typical of SPC with a circumscribed malignant epithelial proliferation containing fibrovascular cores and surrounded, at least focally, by a thick fibrous capsule. The lobular nature of these tumours was confirmed on the resection specimens by the absence of E-cadherin and beta-catenin membrane expression. The invasive nature was confirmed by the presence of entrapped fat cells, the absence of myoepithelial cells and focal merging of the solid papillary areas with classic ILC at the periphery. Of note, 1 case was a recurrent carcinoma without an in situ component. Conclusion: This study provides further evidence that EPC and SPC represent a unique growth pattern of breast carcinomas rather than reflecting the in situ or invasive nature of the tumour, and that ILC can acquire a papillary growth pattern. (C) 2016 S. Karger AG, Basel	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical analysis of 137 cases of ultrasound-guided positioning for resection of non-palpable breast masses	Objective: The aim of this study was to evaluate the clinical value of ultrasound-guided resection of non-palpable breast masses. Materials and Methods: One hundred thirty-seven cases of non palpable breast mass patients who underwent surgical treatment from June 2007 to June 2012 were enrolled in this study. All patients were found with breast masses in mammography or ultrasound, and underwent preoperative routine ultrasound-guided wire positioning. Results: One hundred fifty-eight lesions underwent ultrasound positioning accurate resection, of which 34 cases (21.5%) were malignant, including 26 cases (16.5%) of intraductal carcinoma, four cases (2.5%) of infiltrating ductal carcinoma, and three cases (1.9%) of invasive lobular carcinoma. Thirteen patients underwent modified radical mastectomy, and 21 cases (61.8%) underwent breast conservation operation. All patients were followed up for six to 53 months, only one patient had pulmonary metastasis after two years, and there was no local recurrence. Conclusion: Resection of non-palpable breast masses with preoperative ultrasound-guided positioning has advantages of accurate positioning and simple operation and is of great significance for early diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Statin Use and Breast Cancer Risk in the Nurses' Health Study	Preclinical studies support an anticancer effect of statin drugs, yet epidemiologic evidence remains inconsistent regarding their role in breast cancer primary prevention. Here, we report an updated analysis of the association between statin use and breast cancer incidence in the Nurses' Health Study (NHS) cohort. Postmenopausal NHS participants without a cancer history were followed from 2000 until 2012 (n = 79,518). Data on statin use were retrieved from biennial questionnaires. We fit Cox regression models to estimate associations between longitudinal statin use and breast cancer incidence. Over 823,086 person-years of follow-up, 3,055 cases of invasive breast cancer occurred. Compared with never users, both former and current statin users had similar rates of invasive breast cancer incidence [former users: HRadj, 0.96; 95% confidence interval (CI), 0.82-1.1; current users: HRadj, 1.1; 95% CI, 0.92-1.3]. Associations did not differ by estrogen receptor (ER) status or histology (ductal vs. lobular carcinoma). Statin use was not associated with risk of invasive breast cancer, irrespective of histologic subtype and ER status. Statin drugs do not appear to modify processes involved in breast cancer initiation. (C) 2016 AACR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Tumor microenvironment in invasive lobular carcinoma: possible therapeutic targets	Invasive ductal and lobular carcinomas (IDC and ILC) are the two most common histological types of breast cancer, and have been considered to develop from terminal duct lobular unit but their molecular, pathological, and clinical features are markedly different between them. These differences could be due to different mechanisms of carcinogenesis and tumor microenvironment, especially cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) but little has been explored in this aspect. Therefore, in this study, we evaluated the status of angiogenesis, maturation of intratumoral microvessels, and proliferation of CAFs using immunohistochemistry and PCR array analysis to explore the differences of tumor microenvironment between ILC and IDC. We studied grade- and age-matched, luminal-like ILC and IDC. We immunolocalized CD34 and aSMA for an evaluation of CAFs and CD31, Vasohibin-1, a specific marker of proliferative endothelial cells and nestin, a marker of pericytes for studying the status of proliferation and maturation of intratumoral microvessel. We also performed PCR array analysis to evaluate angiogenic factors in tumor stromal components. The number of CAFs, microvessel density, and vasohibin-1/CD31 positive ratio were all significantly higher in ILC than IDC but nestin immunoreactivity in intratumoral microvessel was significantly lower in ILC. These results did indicate that proliferation of CAFs and endothelial cells was more pronounced in ILC than IDC but newly formed microvessels were less mature than those in IDC. PCR array analysis also revealed that IGF-1 expression was higher in ILC than IDC. This is the first study to demonstrate the differences of tumor microenvironment including CAFs and proliferation and maturation of intratumoral vessels between ILC and IDC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	E-cadherin immunohistochemistry in breast pathology: uses and pitfalls	E-cadherin immunohistochemistry is used commonly in surgical pathology practice to help distinguish lobular carcinoma in situ from ductal carcinoma in situ and invasive lobular carcinoma from invasive ductal carcinoma in histologically problematic or indeterminate cases. However, the interpretation of E-cadherin immunostains is not always straightforward. Failure to recognize the pitfalls and limitations of E-cadherin immunostains can lead to an erroneous diagnosis which may result in inappropriate patient management, particularly for patients with in-situ lesions. In this paper we review the uses and, particularly, the pitfalls in the interpretation of E-cadherin immunostains in distinguishing lobular from ductal lesions of the breast.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Recommendations for excision following core needle biopsy of the breast: a contemporary evaluation of the literature	Pathologists frequently encounter non-malignant histological findings in percutaneous core needle biopsies (CNBs). Standards for the management of patients with lesions such as atypical ductal hyperplasia, atypical lobular hyperplasia, and lobular carcinoma in situ, as well as other benign lesions, are not well defined, and recommendations for surgical biopsy or continued clinical and radiological follow-up are inconsistent. The frequency with which these lesions are 'upgraded' to carcinoma in excision specimens is widely variable in the literature. Many CNB studies lack careful radiological-pathological correlation, clear criteria for excision, and clinical follow-up for patients on whom excision was not performed. This review of the recent literature emphasizes studies with radiological-pathological correlation, with the goal of developing a contemporary, evidence-based approach to the management of non-malignant lesions of the breast diagnosed on CNB. The data supporting an emerging consensus on which lesions may not require excision are highlighted. The management of non-malignant lesions diagnosed on magnetic resonance imaging-guided CNB is also discussed.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparative Study of Several Cases of Human Breast Cancer and Mammary Cancer in Domestic Dogs and Cats	A useful model for studying tumor systems, which is close to the human analogue, is very necessary for development of modern approaches and methods in cancer researches. As breast cancer is the second leading cause of cancer deaths in women, spontaneous mammary tumors in domestic animals are feasible solution for valid tumor systems model. In this study we present histological diagnosis and grading of human, canine and feline mammary tumors and evaluate their histological and biological behavior. Histological diagnosis of animal tissue samples found five cases of ductal carcinoma (n= 5, 62.5%), one lobular carcinoma, one squamous cell carcinoma and one case of metaplastic carcinoma with osteosarcomatous differentiation, graded from I to III: I (n= 1, 12.5%), II (n= 4, 50%) and III (n= 3, 37.5%). Four of the human cases were diagnosed as invasive ductal (n= 2, 40%) and lobular (n= 2, 40%) carcinoma, one case - metaplastic carcinoma, all scored as grade III.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Sclerosing Adenosis and Accompanying Malignancies A Clinicopathological and Imaging Study in a Chinese Population	Sclerosing adenosis (SA) is a less common histopathological lesion of the breast that can coexist with proliferative lesions as well as malignancies. We aimed to analyze the clinicopathological characteristics of SA and to investigate the radiological features of SA.Patients who underwent breast surgery at our institute from 2007 to 2013 were retrospectively reviewed. A total of 815 breasts (722 patients) were included in the final analysis. Synchronous bilateral SA was defined as the detection of another SA arising in the contralateral breast within 1 month after surgery for the initial breast lesion. Baseline characteristics, imaging records (ultrasonography, mammography, and magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]), and pathology were included in the analysis.The median age at diagnosis was 47 years old. The majority of patients had unilateral non-Bc-SA (457/722). Among 102 patients with bilateral SA, 78.4% were diagnosed synchronously. In total, 26 patients suffered from synchronous bilateral breast cancer. Upon final pathological investigation, 226 cases were SA involving breast cancer (Bc-SA), most (56.2%) of which were ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). In addition, lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and diseases that involved LCIS also comprised up to 11.1% of cases. The majority of SA cases (405; 49.7%) had no obvious symptoms except for imaging changes in mammography or ultrasound. Compared with non-Bc-SA cases, Bc-SA cases were more likely to exhibit features of mass (32.8% vs. 28.6%) and architectural distortion (20.4% vs. 13.0%) on mammography. Ultrasonography, mammography, and MRI revealed unsatisfactory sensitivity and specificity to differentiate Bc-SA from non-Bc-SA. MRI exhibited the highest sensitivity and lowest specificity, whereas the specificity of mammography was as low as 50.0%.A tendency for synchronous bilaterality in both Bc-SA and non-Bc-SA was noted. DCIS was the most commonly observed malignancy involved in Bc-SA. Although most patients with SA were asymptomatic, the ability of imaging studies to accurately differentiate non-Bc-SA from Bc-SA remained unsatisfactory.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of Oncotype DX Recurrence Score by Histologic Types of Breast Carcinoma	Context.-Oncotype DX (ODX) is a widely used commercial assay that estimates the risk of distant recurrence and may predict the benefit of chemotherapy in a subset of breast cancers. Some studies have shown the ability to predict Oncotype DX recurrence score (ODXRS), based on routinely reported pathologic features; however, there are limited data correlating specific histologic type of breast cancer to ODXRS.Objective.-To compare ODXRS to specific histologic types of breast cancer.Design.-One hundred eighty-four cases were sent for ODXRS testing and the results were compared with histologic type and grade.Results.-The highest average ODXRS was seen in invasive ductal carcinoma with micropapillary features (29) followed by invasive ductal carcinoma not otherwise specified (mean = 19.4, SD = 11.6), invasive mucinous carcinoma (mean = 17.2, SD = 5.9), invasive lobular carcinoma (mean = 15.7, SD = 7.2), mixed ductal and lobular carcinoma (mean = 14.1, SD = 7.7), tubular carcinoma (10.0), and mixed ductal and mucinous carcinoma (mean = 8.0, SD = 4.2). Most tumors that had a high ODXRS were grade 3 invasive ductal carcinoma, representing 13 of a total of 20 cases (65%). Interestingly, 3 of the 4 cases of pure invasive mucinous carcinoma had an intermediate ODXRS.Conclusions.-Although the numbers are small, our findings raise further awareness of the significance between histologic type and grade, and RS in breast cancer. In some special histologic types of breast cancer, particularly those considered to follow either an excellent or poor clinical course by histology alone, it is unclear whether the ODXRS results are as meaningful as in carcinomas of no special type. Further investigation with higher numbers and outcome data is needed.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Determinants of advanced stage presentation of breast cancer in 87,969 Brazilian women	Background: Breast cancer is commonly diagnosed at an advanced stage in Brazil.Aim: Analyze the determinants of advanced staging in Brazilian women with breast cancer.Methods: Crosssectional study, including women diagnosed with breast cancer in Brazil, between 2000 and 2009.Results: A total of 59,317 women were included, 53.5% being classified as advanced stage (>= IIB). Younger age (18 to 49 years old) (OR= 1.61 95% Cl 1.51 to 1.72) or between 40 and 49 years old (OR= 1.08 95% CI 1.03 to 1.14), having low educational level (OR= 1.53 95% CI 1.48 to 1.58), living in less developed geographical regions (OR= 1.27 95% Cl 1.21 to 1.33), having invasive ductal carcinoma (OR= 2.70 65% CI 2.56 to 2.84) and invasive lobular carcinoma (OR= 2.63 95% CI 2.42 to 2.86) were associated with advanced breast cancer.Conclusion: We conclude that future interventions should focus on these high risk groups. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Beta-catenin Expression Patterns in Matched Pre- and Post-Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy-Resistant Breast Cancer	Background. beta-catenin is a critical component of the cadherin cell-to-cell adhesion pathway and a key participant in the Wnt signaling pathway. Activation of beta-catenin signaling in the Wnt pathway is a known contributor to tumor cancer progression and metastasis and may result in resistance to chemotherapeutic agents. The aim of this study is to evaluate the patterns of expression of beta-catenin in breast carcinoma cells before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Discovery of the molecular mechanisms responsible for resistance to chemotherapy treatment could result in more effective therapy, and improve outcome and survival. Design. Twenty-nine matched pre-treatment and post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy breast carcinomas were subjected to immunohistochemical study using anti-beta-catenin antibody. Normal staining was defined as crisp membrane staining in >90% tumor cells; aberrant expression was nuclear staining in >5% tumor cells. Results. Of the 29 included cases, five cases of invasive lobular carcinoma lacked beta-catenin immunoreactivity pre- and post-treatment. Mildly reduced membranous staining was seen in two post-treatment samples. One case of triple-negative ductal carcinoma had reduced pre- and post-treatment staining. All other cases showed normal pre- and post-treatment beta-catenin expression. No aberrant staining was identified. Conclusion. In our study, there was no difference in the expression of beta-catenin in pre- and post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy specimens. These results do not suggest that beta-catenin plays a role in conferring neoadjuvant chemotherapy resistance.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prone Partial-Breast Irradiation After Breast Conserving Surgery: Results of 397 Patients at a Median Follow-up of 40 Months		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	An Analysis of Patient Characteristics and Clinical Outcomes in Subcentimeter Breast Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Feasibility and Early Outcomes of a Multicenter Trial of Intraoperative Radiation Therapy Using Electronic Brachytherapy at the Time of Breast Conservation Surgery for Early-Stage Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pattern of Presentation, Treatment, Outcome, and Prognostic Factors of Male Breast Cancer over 13 Years: A National Database Analysis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of F-18-FDG PET/CT for Systemic Staging of Newly Diagnosed Invasive Lobular Carcinoma Versus Invasive Ductal Carcinoma	Although guidelines such as those of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network consider F-18-FDG PET/CT for systemic staging of newly diagnosed stage III breast cancer patients, factors in addition to stage may influence the utility of PET/CT. Because invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is less conspicuous than invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) on F-18-FDG PET, we hypothesized that tumor histology may be one such factor. We evaluated PET/CT systemic staging of patients newly diagnosed with ILC compared with IDC. Methods: In this Institutional Review Board-approved retrospective study, our Hospital Information System was screened for ILC patients who underwent PET/CT in 2006-2013 before systemic or radiation therapy. Initial stage was determined from examination, mammography, ultrasound, MR, or surgery. PET/CT was performed to identify unsuspected distant metastases. A sequential cohort of stage III IDC patients was evaluated for comparison. Upstaging rates were compared using the Pearson chi(2) test. Results: The study criteria were fulfilled by 146 ILC patients. PET/CT revealed unsuspected distant metastases in 12(8%): 0 of 8 with initial stage 1,2 of 50 (4%) stage II, and 10 of 88 (11%) stage III. Upstaging to IV by PET/CT was confirmed by biopsy in all cases. Three of 12 upstaged patients were upstaged only by the CT component of the PET/CT, as the metastases were not F-18-FDG-avid. In the comparison stage III IDC cohort, 22% (20/89) of patients were upstaged to IV by PET/CT. All 20 demonstrated F-18-FDG-avid metastases. The relative risk of PET/CT revealing unsuspected distant metastases in stage III IDC patients was 1.98 times (95% confidence interval, 0.98-3.98) that of stage III ILC patients (P = 0.049). For F-18-FDG-avid metastases, the relative risk of PET/CT revealing unsuspected F-18-FDG-avid distant metastases in stage III IDC patients was 2.82 times (95% confidence interval, 1.26-6.34) that of stage III ILC patients (P = 0.007). Conclusion: F-18-FDG PET/CT was more likely to reveal unsuspected distant metastases in stage III IDC patients than in stage III ILC patients. In addition, some ILC patients were upstaged by non-F-18-FDG-avid lesions visible only on the CT images. Overall, the impact of PET/CT on systemic staging may be lower for ILC patients than for IDC patients.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Influence of Texture and Colour in Breast TMA Classification	Breast cancer diagnosis is still done by observation of biopsies under the microscope. The development of automated methods for breast TMA classification would reduce diagnostic time. This paper is a step towards the solution for this problem and shows a complete study of breast TMA classification based on colour models and texture descriptors. The TMA images were divided into four classes: i) benign stromal tissue with cellularity, ii) adipose tissue, iii) benign and benign anomalous structures, and iv) ductal and lobular carcinomas. A relevant set of features was obtained on eight different colour models from first and second order Haralick statistical descriptors obtained from the intensity image, Fourier, Wavelets, Multiresolution Gabor, M-LBP and textons descriptors. Furthermore, four types of classification experiments were performed using six different classifiers: (1) classification per colour model individually, (2) classification by combination of colour models, (3) classification by combination of colour models and descriptors, and (4) classification by combination of colour models and descriptors with a previous feature set reduction. The best result shows an average of 99.05% accuracy and 98.34% positive predictive value. These results have been obtained by means of a bagging tree classifier with combination of six colour models and the use of 1719 non-correlated (correlation threshold of 97%) textural features based on Statistical, M-LBP, Gabor and Spatial textons descriptors.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Case of Two Distinct Lesions Within a Lymph Node of a Patient with Invasive Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Breast Cancer in Women over 75: An Evaluation of Predictive Markers and Aggressive Subtypes		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinico-Pathologic Characteristics in Neoadjuvant Breast Cancers: A Single Institution's Experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	More than triple risk of reoperation in DCIS compared to invasive breast cancer after wire-guided breast conserving surgery		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Routine practice use of Oncotype Dx assay in French breast cancer patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Fibroadenoma with an unexpected lobular carcinoma in situ: A case report and review of the literature	Fibroadenoma (FA) is the most common type of breast lesion in young female individuals. Although malignant transformation in FA is rare, there is evidence of an association with breast carcinoma, particularly in middle-aged females with associated risk factors, such as a strong family history and/or BRCA-1/2 mutations. The current study presents the case of a 44-year-old female exhibiting lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) arising within an FA. Over the previous 20 years, numerous lumps were detected in the patient's breasts, all of which were clinically diagnosed as FA and expectantly managed. One year prior to presentation, the patient's father was diagnosed with esophageal cancer, older sister with kidney cancer and the patient herself with a benign ovarian teratoma. The patient presented with one lump in each breast and monitoring was performed using ultrasonography (US). US detected an increase in the size of the two lumps and analysis of the images was used to propose a diagnosis of FA. Therefore, a lumpectomy was performed. Analysis of the frozen section indicated a diagnosis of FA in the right breast, however, a 5-mm LCIS was identified within the FA of the left breast. Subsequent to the identification of three additional lumps in the left breast, a left mastectomy was performed. During a five-year follow-up period, no local recurrence or contralateral breast carcinoma occurred. The present study showed that FAs containing foci of carcinoma in situ can he indistinguishable from benign lesions following imaging, therefore, despite the incidence of carcinoma within FA is estimated at 0.1-0.3%, it should be considered a long-term risk factor for invasive breast cancer. The present describes a case of LCIS arising within an FA and conducts a review of the relevant literature.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnosis and treatment of accessory breast cancer in 11 patients	The present study aimed to investigate the clinical characteristics, diagnosis and treatment of accessory breast cancer, and contribute valuable information regarding this rare tumour to the current literature, ultimately facilitating the development of improved treatment strategies. The present study reported the cases of 11 patients with accessory breast cancer. The patients with accessory breast cancer were admitted between January 2002 and June 2014, and the patient records were retrospectively analysed. All patients presented with a tumour that was localised in the axilla. Out of these patients, there were 8 patients with invasive ductal carcinoma and 3 patients with invasive lobular carcinoma. The follow-up periods for patients ranged between 4 and 54 months. Out of the 5 patients that experienced neoplasm metastases, 4 patients succumbed to the disease. In total, 6 patients remain alive with no evidence of disease. Accessory breast cancer is a progressive tumour, and long-term follow-up is required. A comprehensive treatment strategy may be an effective treatment option for patients; however, the optimal time at which to commence chemotherapy and the role of combined radiotherapy and endocrine therapy require additional investigation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer subtypes based on estrogen receptor, progesteron receptor, Her2 expression and Ki-67 proliferation: Clinicopathological evaluation		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A case of lobular breast carcinoma with extracellular mucin production		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Hibernomas: Three new cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Embryonic signature in primary breast cancers and associated OSNA positive lymph nodes		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathologic features and time interval analysis of contralateral breast cancers	Introduction. We hypothesized that most contralateral breast cancers (CBCs) develop >= 5 years after the primary breast cancer (PBC) and that CBCs have more favorable tumor characteristics.Methods. This is a single-institution retrospective review of 323 patients who were diagnosed with CBC from 1990 to 2014. CBCs were diagnosed at least I year after the diagnosis of PBC. X-2 tests and one-way analysis of variance were used to examine the time interval and pathologic features between the PBC and CBC.Results. The median time interval between the PBC and CBC was 6.2 years (average: 7.1, range: 1.01-23.0), and 189 (58.5%) patients had a time interval >= 5 years. Patients >= 70 years old developed a CBC sooner than patients <50 years (median: 4.3 vs 6.6 years, P < .001). Patients with infiltrating lobular carcinoma developed their CBC in 9.0 years versus 6.2 years for infiltrating ductal carcinoma histology (P = .028). In comparison with the PBC, a greater proportion of CBCs were stage I (50.8%), T1 (72.1%), node negative (67.5%), and estrogen receptor positive (68.7%). Of the 252 patients with available tumor size information for both cancers, only 54 (21.4%) patients developed a CBC that was >1 cm larger than their PBC, and only 25 (9.9%) patients developed a CBC that was >2 cm larger than their PBC. Only 28 of 201 (13.9%) node-negative PBCs developed a node-positive CBC.Conclusion. A majority of CBCs develop >= 5 years after the diagnosis of the PBC CBCs have more favorable tumor characteristics than the PBC and tend to be smaller and node negative.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Expression of the Zonula Adhaerens Protein PLEKHA7 Is Strongly Decreased in High Grade Ductal and Lobular Breast Carcinomas	PLEKHA7 is a junctional protein, which participates in a complex that stabilizes E-cadherin at the zonula adhaerens. Since E-cadherin is involved in epithelial morphogenesis, signaling, and tumor progression, we explored PLEKHA7 expression in cancer. PLEKHA7 expression was assessed in invasive ductal and lobular carcinomas of the breast by immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence and quantitative RT-PCR. PLEKHA7 was detected at epithelial junctions of normal mammary ducts and lobules, and of tubular and micropapillary structures within G1 and G2 ductal carcinomas. At these junctions, the localization of PLEKHA7 was along the circumferential belt (zonula adhaerens), and only partially overlapping with that of E-cadherin, p120ctn and ZO-1, as shown previously in rodent tissues. PLEKHA7 immunolabeling was strongly decreased in G3 ductal carcinomas and undetectable in lobular carcinomas. PLEKHA7 mRNA was detected in both ductal and lobular carcinomas, with no observed correlation between mRNA levels and tumor type or grade. In summary, PLEKHA7 is a junctional marker of epithelial cells within tubular structures both in normal breast tissue and ductal carcinomas, and since PLEKHA7 protein but not mRNA expression is strongly decreased or lost in high grade ductal carcinomas and in lobular carcinomas, loss of PLEKHA7 is a newly characterized feature of these carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Characterization of individual foci of multifocal invasive lobular breast cancer using gene expression profiling		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Interrelationships Between Ki67, HER2/neu, p53, ER, and PR Status and Their Associations With Tumor Grade and Lymph Node Involvement in Breast Carcinoma Subtypes Retrospective-Observational Analytical Study	Various predictive and prognostic factors could affect breast carcinoma behavior, but to date no definitive correlation has been established between them and breast carcinoma subtypes. The present study was conducted to examine the interrelationships of these predictive and prognostic factors as well as their effects on breast carcinoma subtypes.The archives of all patients with breast carcinoma (from 2008 to 2014) were studied. Patients' data were extracted using a checklist that included age, histology type, size and grade of tumor, lymph node involvement, estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) status, along with the overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER2/neu) and the rate of Ki67 and p53 mutations. All data were analyzed by SPSS-17 software with (2) and Fisher exact tests, as well as the least significant difference pairwise comparison test.A total of 566 patients' records were included in this study. The mean age of patients was 5012.9 with an age range of 17 to 98 years. A meaningful correlation was found between age and the type of tumor (P=0.001). Infiltrating lobular carcinoma had a higher ER positivity between groups (85.7%), whereas noninvasive carcinomas had a higher PR positivity (67%). In addition, a meaningful correlation was detected between the type and grade of tumor (P=0.001). No meaningful relationship was observed between the type of tumor and HER2/neu overexpression and number of lymph nodes involved. Between the groups, medullary carcinoma had the highest Ki67 index (P=0.007). Meaningful correlation was found between the grade of tumor and lymph node involvement (P=0.005) and also with HER2/neu overexpression (P=0.002). Higher grades had greater positivity in Ki67 index and p53 mutation rates (P=0.002, P=0.01). HER2/neu positive tumors had a higher Ki67 index (P=0.03).Higher Ki67 index tumors showed more HER2/neu overexpression, larger size, and more lymph node involvement compared with other types and maybe considered aggressive. Moreover, in young patients with breast carcinoma, the rates of Ki67 with the overexpression of HER2/neu and p53 mutations are higher, and it shows a more aggressive behavior than other tumors assessed in this age group.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Strong adverse effect of epidermal growth factor receptor 2 overexpression on prognosis of patients with invasive lobular breast cancer: a comparative study with invasive ductal breast cancer in Chinese population	The data on the outcome of breast invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) are conflicting. In addition, the prognostic effect of molecular subtypes on ILC remains unclear. In this study, the clinicopathological and prognostic data between 269 ILC and 816 invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) cases in a Chinese population were extensively compared, with a median follow-up time of 7.8 years. Compared with the IDC group, ILC tumors had more lymph node invasion, hormonal receptor positivity, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) negativity. ILC patients showed overall survival (OS) and recurrence/metastasis-free survival (RFS) rates similar to those of IDC patients but exhibited worse disease-free survival (DFS) rate because of the higher rate of contralateral breast cancer (BC). Further analysis showed that OS, RFS, and DFS were similar between ILC and IDC patients in the subgroups of luminal A and triple-negative BC with HER2 negativity but were worse in ILC patients than those in IDC patients in the subgroups of luminal B and HER2 overexpression with positive HER2 expression. Multivariate analysis indicated HER2 positivity as an independent risk factor for OS, RFS, and DFS of ILC patients, which increased the risk in the ILC group than that in IDC group. The interaction of HER2 and ILC was also defined as an independent risk factor for OS, RFS, and DFS of the entire population. In conclusion, overexpression of HER2 exhibited stronger negative effect on the prognosis of ILC patients than that in IDC patients, suggesting that treatment targeting HER2 is crucial for this BC subgroup.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Incidence of primary breast cancer in Iran: Ten-year national cancer registry data report	Breast cancer is the leading type of malignancy and the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in women worldwide. The screening programs and advances in the treatment of patients with breast cancer have led to an increase in overall survival. Cancer registry systems play an important role in providing basic data for research and the monitoring of the cancer status. In this study, the results of the 10-year national cancer registry (NCR) of Iran in breast cancer are reviewed. NCR database records were searched for primary breast cancer records according to ICD-O-3 coding and the cases were reviewed. A total of 52,068 cases were found with the coding of primary breast cancer. Females constituted 97.1% of the cases. Breast cancer was the leading type of cancer in Iranian females, accounting for 24.6% of all cancers. The mean age of the women with breast cancer was 49.6 years (95% CI 49.5-49.6). Most of the cases (95.7%) were registered as having invasive pathologies (behavior code 3). The most common morphology of primary breast cancer was invasive ductal carcinoma (ICD-O 8500/3) followed by invasive lobular carcinoma (ICD-O 8520/3) with relative frequencies of 77.8% and 5.2%, respectively. The average annual crude incidence of primary breast cancer in females was 22.6 (95% CI 22.1-23.1) per 100,000 females, with an age-standardized rate (ASR) of 27.4 (95% CI 22.5-35.9). There were no data on survival, staging or immunohistochemical marker(s) of the breast-cancer-registered cases. The incidence of breast cancer in Iran is lower than in low-middle-income neighboring countries. The NCR data registry of breast cancer is not accurate in monitoring the effect of screening programs or determining the current status of breast cancer in Iran. Screening programs of breast cancer in Iran have failed to enhance the detection of the patients with in situ lesion detection. A quality breast cancer registry and a screening program for breast cancer are both needed. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer incidence and menopausal hormone therapy in Norway from 2004 to 2009: a register-based cohort study	In Norway, the breast cancer incidence increased by 50% in the 1990s, during a period with initiation of mammography screening as well as a fourfold increase in use of menopausal hormone therapy (HT). After 2002, the HT use has dropped substantially; however, the breast cancer incidence has declined only marginally. How much mammography screening contributed to the breast cancer incidence increase in the 1990s compared with HT use and specifically different types of HT use, has thus been discussed. Whether HT affects the incidence of subtypes of breast cancer differently has also been questioned. We have linked individual data from several national registries from 2004 to 2009 on 449,717 women aged 50-65 years. 4597 cases of invasive cancer and 681 cases of ductal carcinoma insitu (DCIS) were included in the analysis. We used Cox regression to estimate hazard ratio (HR) as a measure of the relative risk of breast cancer associated with use of HT. The HRs associated with prescriptions of HT for more than 1 year were 2.06 (1.90-2.24) for estrogen and progesterone combinations, 1.03 (0.85-1.25) for systemic estrogens, and 1.23 (1.01-1.51) for tibolone. Invasive lobular carcinoma was more strongly associated with use of estrogen and progesterone combinations, HR = 3.10 (2.51-3.81), than nonlobular carcinoma, HR = 1.94 (1.78-2.12). The corresponding value for DCIS was 1.61 (1.28-2.02). We estimated the population attributable fraction to 8.2%, corresponding to 90 breast cancer cases in 2006 indicating that HT use still caused a major number of breast cancer cases.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Telomere length alterations unique to invasive lobular carcinoma	Telomeres are nucleoprotein complexes located at the extreme ends of eukaryotic chromosomes and protect chromosomal ends from degradation and recombination. Dysfunctional telomeres contribute to genomic instability, promote tumorigenesis, and, in breast cancer, have been associated with increased cancer risk and poor prognosis. Short telomere lengths have been previously associated with triple-negative and human epidermal growth factor receptor (Her2)-positive ductal carcinomas. However, these investigations have not specifically assessed invasive lobular carcinomas (ILCs), which accounts for 5% to 15% of all invasive breast cancers. Here, we evaluate telomere lengths within 48 primary ILCs with complete characterization of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), and Her2 status, including 32 luminal/Her2- (ER+/PR+/Her2), 8 luminal/Her2+ (ER+/PR+/Her2+), 3 Her2+ (ER-/PR-/Her2+), and 5 triple-negative (ER-/PR-/Her2) carcinomas. A telomere-specific fluorescence in situ hybridization assay, which provides single-cell telomere length resolution, was used to evaluate telomere lengths and compare with standard clinicopathological markers. In contrast to breast ductal carcinoma, in which more than 85% of cases display abnormally short telomeres, approximately half (52%) of the ILCs displayed either normal or long telomeres. Short telomere length was associated with older patient age. Interestingly, 3 cases (6%) displayed a unique telomere pattern consisting of 1 or 2 bright telomere spots among the normal telomere signals within each individual cancer cell, a phenotype that has not been previously described. Additional studies are needed to further evaluate the significance of the unique bright telomere spot phenotype and the potential utility of telomere length as a prognostic marker in lLC. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Digital mammography screening in Germany: Impact of age and histological subtype on program sensitivity	Introduction: Program sensitivity (PS), i.e., the ratio of screen-detected cancers divided by the sum of screen-detected plus interval cancers, is a major outcome in population-based mammography screening programs (MSP). This study evaluated PS within the digital MSP in Germany focussing on the impact of age and histological subtype.Methods: Data of 838,579 first-time participants aged 50-69 years who were screened in 2005-2008 were linked with cancer registry data from Germany's most populous state, North Rhine-Westphalia. Invasive breast cancers and ductal carcinomas in situ (DCIS) were detected either at screening or during the 24 month post-screening interval. PS was evaluated with respect to age at screening, in-situ or invasive cancer and histological characteristics.Results: In total, 6767 cancers were detected at screening and 1884 cancers were diagnosed during the post-screening interval. The overall PS amounted to 78.2% and increased from 72.1% at age 50-54 years to 82.4% at age 65-69 years (p for trend <0.0001). PS was higher for non-lobular (79.1%) than lobular carcinomas (72.1%, p < 0.0001). The highest PS was observed in DCIS across all ages (> 90%), while PS was lowest among participants aged 50-54 years with invasive breast cancer (67.7%), particularly among those with lobular subtype (62.8%). Interval cancers showed generally more advanced tumour stages.Conclusions: While overall PS was high, differences across subgroups indicated that youngest screening participants are at higher risk of interval cancer. Age-adapted recall and assessment strategies in younger participants may need to be considered to improve PS in younger women. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Occult cancer in specimens of reduction mammaplasty aimed at symmetrization. A multicentric study of 2718 patients	Women who have undergone surgical treatment for breast cancer often benefit from a contralateral reduction mammaplasty (CRM) aimed at symmetrization of the contralateral breast unaffected by the initial cancer. In our 7-year multicentric study (12 centers) of 2718 patients, incidence of CRM cancers (CRMc) was 1.47% (n = 40) [95% CI 1.05%-2.00%]. The CRMc group had significantly more initial mammary cancers of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC, 22.5% vs 12.0%) and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS, 35.0% vs 21.6%) types than the healthy CRM group (p = 0.017). 35.0% (n = 14) of patients had en bloc resection; 25.0% (n = 10) of surgical specimens were correctly oriented. En bloc resection and orientation of surgical specimens enable precise pinpointing of the CRMc. A salvage lumpectomy may be proposed as an option when margins are invaded. The histological distribution of the 40 CRMc (mean size 12.7 mm) was carcinoma in situ (CIS) 70%, ILC 12.5%, invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) 12.5% and tubular carcinoma (TC) 5.0%. (C) 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Frequential versus spatial colour textons for breast TMA classification	Advances in digital pathology are generating huge volumes of whole slide (WSI) and tissue microarray images (TMA) which are providing new insights into the causes of cancer. The challenge is to extract and process effectively all the information in order to characterize all the heterogeneous tissue-derived data. This study aims to identify an optimal set of features that best separates different classes in breast TMA. These classes are: stroma, adipose tissue, benign and benign anomalous structures and ductal and lobular carcinomas. To this end, we propose an exhaustive assessment on the utility of textons and colour for automatic classification of breast TMA. Frequential and spatial texton maps from eight different colour models were extracted and compared. Then, in a novel way, the TMA is characterized by the 1st and 2nd order Haralick statistical descriptors obtained from the texton maps with a total of 241 x 8 features for each original RGB image. Subsequently, a feature selection process is performed to remove redundant information and therefore to reduce the dimensionality of the feature vector. Three methods were evaluated: linear discriminant analysis, correlation and sequential forward search. Finally, an extended bank of classifiers composed of six techniques was compared, but only three of them could significantly improve accuracy rates: Fisher, Bagging Trees and AdaBoost Our results reveal that the combination of different colour models applied to spatial texton maps provides the most efficient representation of the breast TMA. Specifically, we found that the best colour model combination is Hb, Luv and SCT for all classifiers and the classifier that performs best for all colour model combinations is the AdaBoost. On a database comprising 628 TMA images, classification yields an accuracy of 98.1% and a precision of 96.2% with a total of 316 features on spatial textons maps. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Preliminary findings of anti-[F-18] FACBC (FACBC) PET-CT imaging of breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Do histopathological primary tumor characteristics translate into different FDG uptake quantification features in stage II-III breast cancer?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Association between vitamin D supplementation and mammographic density change over time in women at high risk for breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oncologist treatment choices in patients with early stage invasive lobular breast carcinoma - a survey		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular histology and partial breast irradiation: To what extent is it a cautionary parameter?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neoadjuvant chemotherapy in invasive lobular breast carcinoma: Comparison of response, surgery and disease free survival with invasive ductal carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Accuracy of estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, HER2 Status and Ki67 labeling index between core needle and surgical excisional tumour in 910 patients with breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The neuronal protein sortilin is expressed in aggressive breast cancers and participates in tumor cell growth and invasion		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Is there prognostic significance of tumor cellularity in primary non-treated breast carcinoma?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Effect of margin width on local recurrence in invasive lobular carcinoma treated with multimodality therapy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Short term toxicity of intraoperative radiotherapy for patients with breast cancer treated at a single center		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma cell lines utilize WNT4 signaling to mediate estrogen-induced growth		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histone deacetylase HDAC7 is a putative therapeutic target in invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	An analysis of lesions diagnosed on screening breast ultrasound in women with dense breasts: Four years of data		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Axillary involvement in lobular breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of Sarcosine Metabolism-Related Proteins in Invasive Lobular Carcinoma: Comparison to Invasive Ductal Carcinoma	Purpose: The aims of this study were to compare the expression of sarcosine metabolism-related proteins between invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) and to determine the implications of these results. Materials and Methods: Tissue microarrays were constructed, containing 30 samples from normal breast tissue, 114 samples from patients with ILC, and 692 samples from patients with IDC. Immunohistochemical staining was performed to examine the expression of sarcosine metabolism-related proteins [glycine N-methyltransferase, sarcosine dehydrogenase, and l-pipecolic acid oxidese (PIPOX)]. Results: The sarcosine metabolic phenotype differed between ILC and DC (p<0.001). In IDC, sarcosine metabolic phenotype was distributed as null type (61.7%)>low sarcosine type (30.4%)>high sarcosine type (5.0%)>intermediate type (2.9%). However, in ILC, the sarcosine metabolic phenotype was distributed as low sarcosine type (61.4%)>null type (32.5%)>intermediate type (5.3%)>high sarcosine type (0.9%). PIPOX showed higher expression in ILC than in IDC (p<0.001) and correlated with androgen receptor (AR) positivity (p=0.001) in ILC. Conclusion: Expression of sarcosine metabolism-related proteins differed between ILC and IDC. Low sarcosine type was the majority sarcosine metabolic phenotype of ILC. PIPOX expression was predominant in ILC and correlated with AR positivity.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lurbinectedin (PM01183) activity in BRCA1/2-associated or unselected metastatic breast cancer. Interim results of an ongoing phase II trial		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer histolological subtypes by race/ethnicity		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Sortilin is associated with breast cancer aggressiveness and contributes to tumor cell adhesion and invasion	The neuronal membrane protein sortilin has been reported in a few cancer cell lines, but its expression and impact in human tumors is unclear. In this study, sortilin was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in a series of 318 clinically annotated breast cancers and 53 normal breast tissues. Sortilin was detected in epithelial cells, with increased levels in cancers, as compared to normal tissues (p = 0.0088). It was found in 79% of invasive ductal carcinomas and 54% of invasive lobular carcinomas (p < 0.0001). There was an association between sortilin expression and lymph node involvement (p = 0.0093), suggesting a relationship with metastatic potential. In cell culture, sortilin levels were higher in cancer cell lines compared to non-tumorigenic breast epithelial cells and siRNA knockdown of sortilin inhibited cancer cell adhesion, while proliferation and apoptosis were not affected. Breast cancer cell migration and invasion were also inhibited by sortilin knockdown, with a decrease in focal adhesion kinase and SRC phosphorylation. In conclusion, sortilin participates in breast tumor aggressiveness and may constitute a new therapeutic target against tumor cell invasion.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Bilateral synchronous carcinoma breast- a rare case presentation	Introduction: Bilateral Breast Carcinoma (BBC) is a rare entity with incidence of synchronous carcinoma being 2-5% of all breast malignancies, which is much less than metachronous carcinoma. Synchronicity/metachronicity are usually associated with local and lymphatic spread and with blood-borne spread to lungs, bones and liver. Moreover BBC are mostly lobular carcinomas but we report a rare case of Infiltrating Ductal Carcinoma (IDC) as the primary carcinoma and Lobular Carcinoma as the secondary.Case description: 56 year old female who presented with a Stage IIIB fungating growth around 10x8cm in the lower inner, lower outer and upper outer quadrant of right breast since 6 months and a StageIIA 4x4cm tumour felt in the left breast in the upper inner and lower outer quadrant. Wedge biopsy of the right breast fungating mass showed Ductal Carcinoma and FNAC of the left breast lump suggested Lobular carcinoma which was confirmed on Histopathology after surgery. Patient was subjected to Hormonal therapy (Tab Tamoxifen), chemotherapy (Cyclophosphamide, 5 FU, and Doxorubicin) followed by Radiotherapy. Patient recovered well and shows no recurrence or signs of metastasis in the 8 months of follow up.Discussion and evaluation: Different histological subtypes with different grades of tumour in both breasts suggested two different synchronous primary tumours. Early detection of the contralateral tumour is of utmost importance emphasising the significance of breast self-examination. Screening tools like MRI have a greater sensitivity compared to Mammography. There are no clear treatment guidelines for bilateral breast cancer. Patients are often treated with bilateral mastectomy, with breast conservative surgery having unclear importance.Conclusion: Meticulous diagnosis and appropriate management help to improve the longitivity with an improved quality of life.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Surgical Management for Early-Stage Bilateral Breast Cancer Patients in China	BackgroundThe aim of this study was to investigate the current surgical management strategy for bilateral breast cancer (BBC) patients and to assess the changes in this strategy in China.MethodsThis is a retrospective review of all patients with early-stage BBC who underwent surgical treatment at the Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center between June 2007 and June 2014.ResultsA total of 15,337 patients with primary breast cancer were identified. Of these patients, 218 (1.5%) suffered from synchronous bilateral breast cancer (sBBC), and 296 (2.0%) suffered from metachronous bilateral breast cancer (mBBC). Patients with a lobular carcinoma component, those with estrogen receptor-positive cancer, and those with an accompanying sclerosing adenosis in the affected breast tended to develop BBC. The rates of bilateral mastectomy, breast conserving therapy, reconstruction, and combined surgeries were 86.2%, 6.4%, 3.7%, and 3.7%, respectively, for patients with sBBC and 81.1%, 4.4%, 3.0%, and 11.5%, respectively, for patients with mBBC. The interval between bilateral cancers, age at first diagnosis of breast cancer, histopathological type, and stage have significant impacts on the choice of surgery for patients with BBC.ConclusionsBilateral mastectomy was the dominant surgical management for patients with BBC in China, despite the increased application of breast reconstruction surgery observed in recent years. Bilateral prosthetic breast reconstruction was the ideal choice for patients with sBBC. Chinese surgeons should take responsibility for patient education and inform their patients about their surgical options.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	DISTRIBUTION AND CLINICOPATHOLOGICAL FEATURES OF BREAST CANCER HISTOLOGICAL SUBTYPES IN LATVIA	Breast cancer is a heterogenous disease. It consists of several histological subtypes that can be separated by morphology and immunohistochemistry. The aim of our study was to determine the distribution of breast cancer histological and molecular subtypes, and their relationship with clinical and pathological characteristics. A total of 561 patients who underwent breast carcinoma surgical treatment from January 2003 till December 2012 were enrolled in the study. In total, invasive ductal carcinomas not otherwise specified (IDC-NOS) plus invasive ductal carcinomas no special type (IDC-NST) were observed in 430 patients (76.65% of cases), medullar carcinoma in 14 patients (2.45%), other rare ductal carcinoma subtypes in 13 patients (2.31%), lobular carcinoma in 81 patients (14.4%) and tubulolobular carcinoma in 23 patients (4.19%). Ductal carcinoma, lobular and tubulolobular carcinoma had predominantly luminal A and B subtype, whereas medullar carcinoma had HER2- positive and triple-negative (TN) subtype. Tubular, cribriform, mucinous, papillary, and apocrine carcinomas had predominantly luminal A subtype. Significant differences between breast cancer histological subtypes and clinicopathological characteristics were observed. Our study for the first time reported the distribution and characteristics of breast cancer histological subtypes in Latvian women and relationship to clinical and tumour histopathological characteristics.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Spontaneous bone metastases in a preclinical orthotopic model of invasive lobular carcinoma; the effect of pharmacological targeting TGF beta receptor I kinase	Invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) and invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) are the most frequently occurring histological subtypes of breast cancer, accounting for 80-90% and 10-15% of the total cases, respectively. At the time of diagnosis and surgical resection of the primary tumour, most patients do not have clinical signs of metastases, but bone micrometastases may already be present. Our aim was to develop a novel preclinical ILC model of spontaneous bone micrometastasis. We used murine invasive lobular breast carcinoma cells (KEP) that were generated by targeted deletion of E-cadherin and p53 in a conditional K14cre;Cdh1((F/F));Trp53((F/F)) mouse model of de novo mammary tumour formation. After surgical resection of the growing orthotopically implanted KEP cells, distant metastases were formed. In contrast to other orthotopic breast cancer models, KEP cells readily formed skeletal metastases with minimal lung involvement. Continuous treatment with SD-208 (60mg/kg per day), an orally available TGF receptor I kinase inhibitor, increased the tumour growth at the primary site and increased the number of distant metastases. Furthermore, when SD-208 treatment was started after surgical resection of the orthotopic tumour, increased bone colonisation was also observed (versus vehicle). Both our in vitro and in vivo data show that SD-208 treatment reduced TGF signalling, inhibited apoptosis, and increased proliferation. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that orthotopic implantation of murine ILC cells represent a new breast cancer model of minimal residual disease in vivo, which comprises key steps of the metastatic cascade. The cancer cells are sensitive to the anti-tumour effects of TGF. Our in vivo model is ideally suited for functional studies and evaluation of new pharmacological intervention strategies that may target one or more steps along the metastatic cascade of events. (c) 2014 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Dlx-2 is implicated in TGF-beta- and Wnt-induced epithelial-mesenchymal, glycolytic switch, and mitochondrial repression by Snail activation	Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and oncogenic metabolism (including glycolytic switch) are important for tumor development and progression. Here, we show that Dlx-2, one of distal-less (Dlx) homeobox genes, induces EMT and glycolytic switch by activation of Snail. In addition, it was induced by TGF-beta and Wnt and regulates TGF-beta- and Wnt-induced EMT and glycolytic switch by activating Snail. We also found that TGF-beta/Wnt suppressed cytochrome c oxidase (COX), the terminal enzyme of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, in a Dlx-2/Snail-dependent manner. TGF-beta/Wnt appeared to downregulate the expression of various COX subunits including COXVIc, COXVIIa and COXVIIc; among these COX subunits, COXVIc was a common target of TGF-beta, Wnt, Dlx-2 and Snail, indicating that COXVIc downregulation plays an important role(s) in TGF-beta/Wnt-induced COX inhibition. Taken together, our results showed that Dlx-2 is involved in TGF-beta- and Wnt-induced EMT, glycolytic switch, and mitochondrial repression by Snail activation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Preoperative identification of early breast cancer patients for safely avoiding axillary surgery		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A new predictive score for axillary lymph node metastases in breast cancer patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical features and survival of women diagnosed with invasive lobular carcinoma in Thailand		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Contralateral breast cancer risk in relation to tumor morphology and age-in which patients is preoperative MRI justified?	Identification of patients who are at increased risk for contralateral breast cancer is essential to determine which patients should be routinely screened for contralateral breast cancer using MRI. The aim of this study was to assess the association of age and tumor morphology with contralateral breast cancer incidence in a large, nationwide population-based study in the Netherlands. All patients with breast cancer stage I-III, diagnosed between 1989 and 2009, were selected from the Netherlands Cancer Registry. The association between contralateral breast cancer risk with tumor morphology and age was assessed using competing-risk regression according to Fine & Gray. Overall, 194,898 patients were included. In multivariable analyses, lobular tumors were significantly associated with an increased risk of contralateral breast cancer within 6 months (cumulative incidence 1.9 %, subdistribution hazard ratio (SHR) 1.17, 95 % confidence interval (CI) 1.06-1.30 compared with 1.3 % in ductal tumors, p = 0.002). Age was also associated with an increased risk of contralateral breast cancer within 6 months (SHR 2.34, 95 % CI 2.08-2.62, p < 0.002 for patients over the age of 75 as compared to patients younger than 50 years). The absolute risk of contralateral breast cancer within 6 months is only slightly increased in patients with a lobular tumor and older patients. In our view, this small increased risk does not justify standard use of preoperative MRI based on tumor morphology or age alone. We propose a more personalized strategy in which additional risk factors (family history, prognosis of primary tumor, and others) may play a role.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Multifocal Breast Cancer: Distinguishing Independent Tumor Foci From In-Transit Metastases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Imaging Characteristics of Invasive Ductal Carcinoma With Lobular Features		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Androgen-Related Tumor Suppressor NKX3.1 Is Expressed More Often in Invasive Ductal Carcinomas in Male Patients than in Female Patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Laboratory Comparison of the 21-Gene Assay and PAM50-ROR		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of the Benefit of Additional Excision in Cases of Papillomas of the Breast Diagnosed on Core Biopsy-Should a Papilloma Be Excised or Not? A Single Institution Experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathological Features of Breast Carcinoma (BC) With PIK3CA Mutations		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	FOXA1 Expression in Invasive and In Situ Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance and Independent Predictive Value of CBP (CREB-Binding Protein) in Breast Cancer (BC)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Utility of Immunohistochemical Expression of C-KIT (CD117) in Categorization of Benign Versus Atypical/Malignant Breast Lesions and Comparison With Other Differentiation Markers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical Evaluation of NKX3.1 Expression in Human Tumors		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular Carcinoma of the Breast Metastatic To the Ovary		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Undifferentiated Carcinoma of the Endometrium - A Review of the Morphologic Spectrum and Variants in 50 Well-Characterized Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance and Independent Predictive Value of CBP (CREB-Binding Protein) in Breast Cancer (BC)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Undifferentiated Carcinoma of the Endometrium - A Review of the Morphologic Spectrum and Variants in 50 Well-Characterized Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Acceptance and adherence to chemoprevention among women at increased risk of breast cancer	Background: Chemoprevention is an option for women who are at increased risk of breast cancer (five year risk >= 1.7%). It is uncertain, however, how often women accept and complete five years of therapy and whether clinical or demographic factors predict completion.Methods: Medical records were abstracted for 219 women whose five year risk of breast cancer was >= 1.7% and who were offered chemoprevention while attending a high risk breast clinic at the Moffitt Cancer Center. We examined the likelihood of accepting chemoprevention and completing five years of therapy, and potential clinical and demographic predictors of these outcomes, using multivariable logistic regression and survival analysis models.Results: There were 118/219 women (54.4%) who accepted a recommendation for chemoprevention and began therapy. The likelihood of accepting chemoprevention was associated with lifetime breast cancer risk and was higher for women with specific high risk conditions (lobular carcinoma in situ and atypical ductal hyperplasia). Women with osteoporosis and those that consumed alcohol were also more likely to accept medication. There were 58/118 (49.2%) women who stopped medication at least temporarily after starting therapy. Based on survival curves, an estimated 60% of women who begin chemoprevention will complete five years of therapy.Conclusions: A substantial percentage of women at increased risk of breast cancer will decline chemoprevention and among those that accept therapy, approximately 40% will not be able to complete five years of therapy because of side effects. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Screening breast magnetic resonance imaging in women with atypia or lobular carcinoma in situ	Background: Atypical lesions and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) are associated with an increased risk of breast malignancy. The utility of breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) screening in this cohort of women after excision of a high-risk lesion has not been previously established. The objective of this study was to investigate outcomes of breast MRI surveillance in this subgroup of high-risk patients.Materials and methods: We performed a retrospective review of women who required excision of an atypical lesion or LCIS who underwent at least one screening breast MRI from April 2005 -December 2011. We collected information on demographics, number of second-look imaging studies recommended, number of biopsies performed and pathologic outcomes.Results: A total of 179 patients met the inclusion criteria, including 131 (73%) with atypical lesions and 48 (27%) with LCIS. Second-look imaging was recommended for 31 of 131 (23.7%) patients with atypical lesions and 8 of 48 (16.7%) with LCIS. Ten biopsies were performed in the atypical cohort (7.6%) with two revealing a malignancy (Positive Predictive Value [PPV] of 20%). In the LCIS cohort, five biopsies were performed (10.4%) with one revealing a malignancy (PPV of 20%).Conclusions: The benefit of breast MRI surveillance in patients after excision of atypical lesions or LCIS has not been clearly delineated previously. Our data demonstrate that the use of screening breast MRI in this cohort results in additional work-up in one-fifth of patients, but a PPV of only 20%. Large, prospective studies would be needed to determine whether breast cancer outcomes differ between patients undergoing conventional breast screening and those undergoing conventional breast screening plus breast MRI surveillance. (C) 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pilot study investigating the prognostic significance of thymidine phosphorylase expression in patients with metastatic breast cancer: a single institution retrospective analysis	Background: The thymidine phosphorylase (TP) enzyme is expressed in higher levels in cancer tissue when compared with normal tissue. It is involved in the intratumoral activation of widely prescribed pyrimidine-derived antimetabolites such as 5'-deoxy-5-fluorouridine and capecitabine (Xeloda (R)). The purpose of this study was to determine the clinical correlation between TP expression in tumor tissue and the clinical outcome of capecitabine-based therapy in patients with locally advanced (stage III) or metastatic breast cancer (stage IV).Methods: The following variables were analyzed as potential determinants of benefit from a capecitabine-based therapy: TP expression, estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) status, human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 status, and Ki67 status. This was accomplished by immunohistochemical analysis of paraffin-embedded cancer tissues from 18 patients with breast cancer treated with at least one cycle of capecitabine. Clinical outcome was measured as time to progression.Results: TP staining intensities in both the invasive and in situ components in patients with lobular and ductal carcinomas were reported. Higher levels of TP in the invasive component were expressed in ER-negative tumors when compared with ER-positive tumors (P<0.05). The ER-positive group expressing lower levels of TP had a median time to progression of 13 months compared with the ER-negative group expressing higher levels of TP which had a median time to progression of 7.5 months (P=0.14).Conclusion: Patients with ER-positive tumors expressing lower levels of TP exhibit a longer time to progression when compared with patients with ER-negative tumors. Consequently, tumor TP expression does not seem to predict the outcome of capecitabine-based chemotherapy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Epstein-Barr virus infection is equally distributed across the invasive ductal and invasive lobular forms of breast cancer	The role of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in the pathogenesis of breast cancer is still unclear, although a growing body of evidence supports a link. The aim of this study was to investigate if EBV infection was more prevalent in invasive ductal carcinoma or invasive lobular carcinoma.An immunohistochemical marker for EBV (Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1) clone El-2.5) was applied to a tissue micro array section. The tissue micro array contained 80 cases of invasive ductal carcinoma, and 80 cases of invasive lobular carcinoma. Each case was scored as positive or negative for nuclear expression of EBNA1 in tumor cells using standard light microscopy.EBNA1 staining was evident in the tumor cells of 63 cases (39.4% of tumor cases). By tumor type (ductal/lobular) EBV infection was noted in 34(42.5%) cases of invasive ductal carcinoma and 29 (36.2%) cases of invasive lobular carcinoma, this difference was not found to be significant (P = 0.518).This study indicates that EBV infection is equally distributed across the ductal and lobular tumor types. (C) 2015 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	An unusual case of colonic adenocarcinoma development in the region of disseminating lobular breast carcinoma infiltration: diagnostic approach and review of the literature	We present an unusual case of colon cancer development in bowel segment involved with lobular breast carcinoma infiltration. 80 year old Caucasian woman was diagnosed with right colon carcinoma due to rectal bleeding and obstructive symptoms. She had nine years clinical history of lobular, well differentiated breast cancer with five years of postoperative tamoxifen therapy, disseminating to bones and pleural cavities two years prior to hemicolectomy. On microscopic examination under the colonic adenocarcinoma and in the whole length of the resected bowel segment, massive infiltration of lobular carcinoma was discovered. She remains alive under the palliative hormone and chemotherapy. In our paper we discuss clinical and pathological issues concerning metastases of breast cancer into the gastrointestinal tract as well as rare colocalization of colonic and breast cancers within the same intestinal segment. Review of the literature is also presented accordingly.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of fibroblasts in invasive lobular breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Utility of intraoperative frozen section examinations of surgical margins: implication of margin-exposed tumor component features on further surgical treatment	Objective: In patients who underwent breast-conserving surgery, we attempted to identify the histological characteristics of margin-exposed tumor components on intraoperative frozen section examinations that were predictive of residual tumor components in additionally resected specimens.Methods: Of 1835 patients who underwent breast-conserving surgery, we identified 220 patients who had positive surgical margins determined by intraoperative frozen section examinations and who had undergone immediate additional resections. Two observers (M.K., H.T.) reviewed the slides of frozen sections and confirmed the presence of tumor components.Results: In additionally resected specimens, residual tumors were detected in 115 cases (52.3%) but not in 105 cases (47.7%). The primary tumor characteristics of extensive intraductal component (+), younger age, invasive lobular carcinoma and pathological T3 classification were significantly associated with the residual tumor components. The margin-exposed tumor components of the maximum diameter, number of positive margins and histological type were correlated with the residual tumors. Multivariate analysis showed that the maximum tumor diameter was an independent risk factor for residual tumors.Conclusions: Diagnosis of positive margins by intraoperative frozen section examinations was useful for predicting residual tumors, and three histological properties of the margin-exposed tumor components were correlated with the status of residual tumor components. Although it was impossible to clearly identify the single main factor for predicting patients for whom additional resections were not necessary, it may be possible to consider stratification of additional surgical therapy according to the characteristics of margin-exposed tumor components on intraoperative frozen section examinations.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular breast cancer and its variants: How special are they for systemic therapy decisions?	The WHO classification of breast tumors distinguishes, besides invasive breast cancer 'of no special type' (former invasive ductal carcinoma, representing 60-70% of all breast cancers), 30 special types, of which invasive lobular carcinoma (LLC) is the most common (5-15%). We review the literature on (i) the specificity and heterogeneity of MC biology as documented by various analytical techniques, including the results of molecular testing for risk of recurrence; (ii) the impact of lobular histology on prediction of prognosis and effect of systemic therapies in patients. Though it is generally admitted that ILC has a better prognosis than IDC, is endocrine responsive, and responds poorly to chemotherapy, currently available data do not unanimously support these assumptions. This review demonstrates some lack of specific data and a need for improving clinical research design to allow oncologists to make informed systemic therapy decisions in patients with ILC. Importantly, future studies should compare various endpoints in ILC breast cancer patients among the group of hormonosensitive breast cancer. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histopathological features of breast cancer in Al-Madinah region of Saudi Arabia	Objectives: To observe the frequency of breast cancer among Saudi patients and to highlight the age variations and features of advanced cancer.Methods: A retrospective study of breast cancer biopsies from all Saudi patients performed between January 2006 and December 2013 in King Fahad Hospital, Al-Madinah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. All the available demographic and tumor related data was analyzed.Results: Of 1005 breast tissues reviewed, 982 specimens were from female, and 23 from male patients. In females, 398 specimens (40.5%) were diagnosed as malignant. Invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) (85.2%) was most common, followed by ductal carcinoma in situ (8%), and invasive lobular carcinoma (2.7%). The mean age of Saudi females with IDC was 46.9 years. Approximately 48.7% IDC were Grade III tumors. A tumor size >2.5 cm was found in 61.1% patients, whereas axillary nodal metastasis was present in 57.1% and lympho-vascular invasion in 64.1% who underwent axillary nodal dissection. In males, 4 specimens (17.4%) were malignant (all IDC).Conclusion: Our finding are consistent with previous reports of breast cancer being diagnosed in younger age group, in advanced stages, and with features of aggressive behavior; which signals the urgency for implementation of breast screening programs.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	VEGFR2 expression and vascular phenotyping demonstrate different patterns of tumor angiogenesis in human gastric and breast cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Vascular endothelial growth factor A - a systematic review and meta-analysis of expression patterns in breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prevalence of breast stem cells in high-risk benign breast lesions and association with breastfeeding		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Estrogen receptor mediates novel mechanisms of estrogen-induced growth and tamoxifen resistance in invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Bra Wearing Not Associated with Breast Cancer Risk: A Population-Based Case-Control Study	Despite the widespread use of bras among U.S. women and concerns in the lay media that bra wearing may increase breast cancer risk, there is a scarcity of credible scientific studies addressing this issue. The goal of the study was to evaluate the relationship between various bra-wearing habits and breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women. We conducted a population-based case-control study of breast cancer in the Seattle-Puget Sound metropolitan area that compared 454 invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) cases and 590 invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) cases diagnosed between 2000 and 2004 with 469 control women between 55 to 74 years of age. Information on bra-wearing habits and other breast cancer risk factors was collected from study participants through in-person interviews. Multivariate adjusted odds ratios (OR) and their associated 95% confidence intervals (CI) were estimated using polytomous logistic regression. No aspect of bra wearing, including bra cup size, recency, average number of hours/day worn, wearing a bra with an underwire, or age first began regularly wearing a bra, was associated with risks of either IDC or ILC. Our results did not support an association between bra wearing and increased breast cancer risk among postmenopausal women. (C)2014 AACR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of metabolism-related proteins in invasive lobular carcinoma: comparison to invasive ductal carcinoma	The purpose of this study is to investigate the difference in expression of metabolism-related proteins in invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) compared to those of the invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC). Tissue microarray was manufactured for 114 cases of ILC and 692 cases of IDC. Immunohistochemical stains were performed as follows: glycolysis (Glut-1, hexokinase II, CAIX, MCT4), glutaminolysis (GLS1, GDH, ASCT2), mitochondria (ATP synthase, SDHA, SDHB), and serine/glycine metabolism (PHGDH, PSAT1, PSPH, SHMT1, GLDC) related proteins. Pleomorphic type (n = 12) of ILC revealed higher expression in hexokinase II, SDHB, and GLDC than classic type (n = 102) (p < 0.05). IDC showed a higher expression of glycolysis (Glut-1, CAIX, MCT4), glutaminolysis (GLS1, ASCT2), and serine/glycine metabolism (PSPH, SHMT1, GLDC) related protein than ILC in tumor cells, whereas ILC revealed higher expression in GDH, SDHA, PHGDH, and PSAT1 than IDC in tumor cells (p < 0.05). In addition, IDC demonstrated a higher expression of metabolism-related proteins than ILC in stromal tissue (p < 0.05). In ILC, tumoral GLDC positivity was correlated with higher nuclear grade (p = 0.026) and higher histologic grade (p = 0.026), and tumoral Glut-1 positivity correlated with higher histologic grade (p = 0.026). Additionally, tumoral PSPH positivity showed a significant correlation to ER negativity and PR negativity (p = 0.026). In conclusion, it reveals different expression patterns of metabolism-related proteins between IDC and ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	COLUMNAR CELL LESIONS OF THE BREAST		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular Changes in Lobular Breast Cancers in Response to Endocrine Therapy	Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) accounts for approximately 10% to 15% of breast carcinomas, and although it responds poorly to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, it appears to respond well to endocrine therapy. Pre- and on-treatment (after 2 weeks and 3 months) biopsies and surgical samples were obtained from 14 postmenopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive (ER+) histologically confirmed ILC who responded to 3 months of neoadjuvant letrozole and were compared with a cohort of 14 responding invasive ductal carcinomas (IDC) matched on clinicopathologic features. RNA was extracted and processed for whole human genome expression microarray. Dynamic clinical response was assessed using periodic three-dimensional ultrasound measurements performed during treatment and defined as a reduction of >70% in tumor volume by 3 months. Pretreatment profiles of ILC and IDC tumors showed distinctive expression of genes associated with E-cadherin signaling, epithelial adhesion, and stromal rearrangement. The changes in gene expression in response to letrozole were highly similar between responding ILC and IDC tumors; genes involved in proliferation were downregulated and those involved with immune function and extracellular matrix remodeling were upregulated. However, molecular differences between the histologic subtypes were maintained upon treatment. This is the first study of molecular changes in ILC in response to endocrine therapy to date. The genes that change on letrozole are highly consistent between ILC and IDC. Differences in gene expression between ILC and IDC at diagnosis are maintained at each time point on treatment. (C)2014 AACR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Targeted capture next generation sequencing of fresh frozen lobular carcinoma in situ and invasive lobular cancer identifies a common repertoire of mutations		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	In vitro assessment of antitumor activities of the PI3K/mTOR inhibitor GSK2126458	Background: Up-regulation of the PI3K/mTOR (phosphatidylinositol-3' kinase/mammalian target of rapamycin) signaling is common in carcinoma. Consistently, targeting these molecules has been shown to halt the growth of many tumors. The main purpose of this study was to develop surrogate biomarkers of the antitumor activity of PI3K/mTOR inhibitors.Methods: Fragments from eight tumors were collected immediately after resection in ice-cold RPMI gassed with 95% O-2 :5% CO2. Viability was determined by measuring tumor cellular respiration (mitochondrial O-2 consumption). The specimens were incubated at 37 degrees C with and without 50 nM GSK2126458 (a highly potent and selective inhibitor of PI3K/mTOR) for 90 min. The tissue was then processed for histology, measurement of intracellular caspase-3 activity (using the caspase-3 substrate N-acetyl-asp-glu-val-asp-7-amino-4-methylcoumarin), and immunohistochemical detection of the apoptotic biomarkers caspase-3, cytochrome C, and annexin A2.Results: GSK2126458 induced morphologic changes in four tumors (two invasive ductal carcinomas, one invasive lobular carcinoma, and one ovarian dysgerminoma), intracellular caspase-3 activity in three tumors (two invasive ductal carcinomas and one poorly differentiated signet ring adenocarcinoma of gastric origin), and immunohistochemical evidence of apoptosis in at least four tumors (three invasive ductal carcinomas and one adenocarcinoma of gastric origin). Two tumors (ovarian serous carcinoma and moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of colorectal origin) demonstrated no treatment effect.Conclusion: These preliminary results demonstrate the feasibility of using in vitro biomarkers for detecting antitumor activities of the rapidly emerging PI3K/mTOR inhibitors.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Hypofractionated Radiation Therapy for Partial Breast Irradiation Based on a Novel NTCP Model for Severe Fibrosis: Clinical Results		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Differential immunostaining of various types of breast carcinomas for growth hormone-releasing hormone receptor - Apocrine epithelium and carcinomas emerging as uniformly positive	Different classes of breast cancers were explored for their positivity for growth hormone-releasing hormone receptors (GHRH-R) in this pilot study, as no systematic evaluation of such tumors has been performed to date. Seventy-two small primary breast carcinomas were evaluated for GHRH-R expression by immunohistochemistry using a polyclonal antibody and a cutoff value of 10% staining. GHRH-R positivity was detected in 58% of all cases, 20/23 (87%) of invasive lobular carcinomas (ILC) and 22/46 (48%) of invasive ductal carcinomas (IDC). GHRH-R positivity was more frequent in grade 2 tumors (86%), as compared to grade 1 (18%) or grade 3 (47%) cancers. GHRH-R expression was not associated with mitotic scores, the Ki-67 labeling indices or nodal status. IDCs with casting-type calcifications on the mammogram showed positivity for GHRH-R in 9/12 (75%) cases. Most importantly, apocrine epithelium, and all 10 apocrine carcinomas added later to the study were GHRH-R-positive. These preliminary results suggest a greater than average GHRH-R expression in ILCs and IDCs associated with casting-type calcifications on the mammogram. Apocrine carcinomas seem uniformly positive for GHRH-R. Whether these findings could indicate a potential role of GHRH-antagonists in targeted treatment of these types of breast cancer requires further studies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer metastasis to the stomach confirmed using gastroscopy: A case report	Breast cancer metastasis to the stomach is relatively rare. Unlike infiltrating ductal carcinoma, invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) has a high tendency to metastasize to the stomach. The present study reports a case of a 53-year-old female who had undergone a modified radical mastectomy of the left breast for ILC eight years previously and presented at the clinic seeking treatment for epigastric discomfort from sour regurgitation and belching that had persisted for one month. Gastroscopy revealed multiple apophysis lesions in the stomach, which-were diagnosed as metastatic tumors to the stomach. The diagnosis was further established using histological and immunohistochemical analyses for gross cystic disease fluid protein-15, cytokeratin (CK) 7and CK20. The patient was treated with systemic chemotherapy without surgery. During the treatment, two gastroscopy procedures revealed that the apophysis lesions in the gastric body had narrowed significantly. Few cases of breast cancer metastasizing to the stomach have been reported, particularly those that have been confirmed using gastroscopy. The present study reports a case of breast cancer metastasis to the stomach to raise awareness of the condition.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Three-dimensional observation of sclerosing adenosis involved by lobular carcinoma in situ using crystal analyzer-based X-ray phase contrast CT		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Plasmacytoid urothelial bladder carcinoma: A case report and literature review		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A lobular carcinoma metastatic to the stomach: Case report and literature review		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular Breast Carcinoma (LBC) and Diffuse Gastric Carcinoma (DGC) in carriers of CDH1 germline mutations		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Genetic profile and morphological features of breast cancers in the setting of Hereditary Breast Cancer (HBC) syndrome		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Morphological changes of blood vessels in breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The coexistence of synchronous BRCA-1 positive breast lobular carcinoma with BRCA-1 negative endometrial endometrioid adenocarcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Fine needle cytology improves the diagnostic accuracy of the clinical and imaging in the breast cancer follow-up		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Incidence of bone metastases and survival after a diagnosis of bone metastases in breast cancer patients	Background: Bone is the most common metastatic site associated with breast cancer. Using a database of women with breast cancer treated at Guy's Hospital, London 1976-2006 and followed until end 2010, we determined incidence of and survival after bone metastases. Methods: We calculated cumulative incidence of bone metastases considering death without prior bone metastases as a competing risk. Risk of bone metastases was modelled through Cox-regression. Survival after bone metastases diagnosis was calculated using Kaplan-Meier methodology. Results: Of the 7064 women, 589 (22%) developed bone metastases during 8.4 years (mean). Incidence of bone metastases was significantly higher in younger women, tumour size >5 cm, higher tumour grade, lobular carcinoma and >= four positive nodes, but was not affected by hormone receptor status. Median survival after bone metastases diagnosis was 2.3 years in women with bone-only metastases compared with <1 year in women with visceral and bone metastases. There was a trend for decreased survival for patients who developed visceral metastases early, and proportionately fewer patients in this group. Interpretation: Incidence of bone metastases has decreased but bone metastases remain a highly relevant clinical problem due to the large number of patients being diagnosed with breast cancer. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pattern of Ipsilateral Breast Tumor Recurrence After Breast-Conserving Therapy	Purpose: To analyze the incidence and prognostic factors of ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) after breast-conserving therapy (BCT) in a large, population-based, single-center study with long-term follow-up.Methods and Materials: We analyzed 3595 cases in which BCT was performed in 3824 women with stage I or II breast cancer. The incidence of IBTR was analyzed over time and was based on IBTR as first event.Results: The 15-year local relapse-free survival was 90.9%. The hazard estimates for IBTR showed a time course with 2 peaks, the first at approximately 5 years and the second, twice as high, at 12 years. Stratifying subjects by age and margin status showed that, for women <= 40 years old with negative margins, adjuvant systemic therapy led to a 5-fold reduced risk of recurrence compared to none, and the presence of lymph vascular space invasion (LVSI) had a 3-fold increased risk compared to its absence. For women >40 years old, the presence of LVSI (hazard ratio [HR] 2.5) and the presence of lobular carcinoma in situ in the lumpectomy specimen (HR 2.3) were the only 2 risk factors.Conclusions: We demonstrated a pattern in risk of IBTR over time, with 2 peaks, first at approximately 5 years and a second, much higher peak at approximately 12 years, especially for women <= 40 years old. For women <= 40 years old with tumor-free resection margins, we noted that the absence of adjuvant systemic therapy and the presence of LVSI were independent prognostic factors of IBTR. For women >40 years old, the presence of LVSI and the presence of lobular carcinoma in situ were independent risk factors. (C) 2014 Elsevier Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Impact of hospital volume on breast cancer outcome: a population-based study in the Netherlands	For low-volume tumours, high surgical hospital volume is associated with better survival. For high-volume tumours like breast cancer, this association is unclear. The aim of this study is to determine to what extent the yearly surgical hospital breast cancer volume is associated with overall survival. All patients, diagnosed with primary invasive non-metastatic breast cancer in the period 2001-2005, were selected from the Netherlands Cancer Registry. Hospitals were grouped by their annual volume of surgery for invasive breast cancer. Cox proportional hazard models were used including patient and tumour characteristics as covariates. Follow-up was completed until the 1st of February 2013. Primary endpoint was 10-year overall survival rate. In total, 58,982 patients with invasive non-metastatic breast cancer were diagnosed during the period 2001-2005. Hospitals were grouped by their (mean) annual surgical volume: < 75 (n = 19), 75-99 (n = 30), 100-149 (n = 29), 150-199 (n = 9) and a parts per thousand yen200 (n = 14). The 10-year observed survival rates were 77, 81, 80, 82 and 82 %, respectively. After case-mix adjustment, patients in low-volume hospitals had a HR of 1.09 (< 75 vs. a parts per thousand yen200; 95 % CI 1.03-1.15). Survival was significantly higher for lobular carcinoma and for diagnosis in the most recent year (2005). Being a male, having a higher age at diagnosis, a higher tumour grade, a larger tumour size, a higher number of positive lymph nodes, an earlier year of diagnosis and a lower SES resulted in a reduced survival and influenced death, all to a larger extent than surgical volume did. In the Netherlands, surgical hospital volume influences 10-year overall survival only marginally and far less than patient and tumour characteristics. No difference in survival was revealed for invasive non-metastatic breast cancer patients in hospitals with 75-99 operations per year compared with hospitals with over 200 operations per year.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of expert criteria for preoperative magnetic resonance imaging of newly diagnosed breast cancer	Despite 2 randomized trials reporting no reduction in operations or local recurrence at 1 year, preoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is increasingly used in diagnostic workup of breast cancer. We evaluated 5 utilization criteria recently proposed by experts. Of women (n = 340) newly diagnosed with unilateral breast cancer who underwent bilateral MRI, most (69.4%) met at least 1 criterion before MRI: mammographic density (44.4%), under consideration for partial breast irradiation (PBI) (19.7%), genetic-familial risk (12.9%), invasive lobular carcinoma (11.8%), and multifocal/multicentric disease (10.6%). MRI detected occult malignant lesion or extension of index lesion in 21.2% of index, 3.3% of contralateral, breasts. No expert criterion was associated with MRI-detected malignant lesion, which associated instead with pre-MRI plan of lumpectomy without PBI (48.2% of subjects): Odds Ratio 3.05, 95% CI 1.57-5.91 (p adjusted for multiple hypothesis testing = 0.007, adjusted for index-vs-contralateral breast and covariates). The expert guidelines were not confirmed by clinical evidence. (C) 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Patients With Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer	The use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer remains controversial. Here we review the current use of breast MRI and the impact of MRI on short-term surgical outcomes and rates of local recurrence. In addition, we address the use of MRI in specific patient populations, such as those with ductal carcinoma in situ, invasive lobular carcinoma, and occult primary breast cancer, and discuss the potential role of MRI for assessing response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Although MRI has improved sensitivity compared with conventional imaging, this has not translated into improved short-term surgical outcomes or long-term patient benefit, such as improved local control or survival, in any patient population. MRI is an important diagnostic test in the evaluation of patients presenting with occult primary breast cancer and has shown promise in monitoring response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy; however, the data do not support the routine use of perioperative MRI in patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer. (C) 2014 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Touch Preparations for the Intraoperative Evaluation of Sentinel Lymph Nodes After Neoadjuvant Therapy Have High False-Negative Rates in Patients With Breast Cancer	Context.-The use of a touch preparation for intraoperative sentinel lymph node diagnosis has become a preferred method of many pathologists because of its reported high sensitivity and rapid turnaround time. However, after neoadjuvant chemotherapy many lymph nodes have significant treatment-related changes that may affect the diagnostic accuracy of the intraoperative evaluation.Objective.-To determine the accuracy of touch preparation for the intraoperative diagnosis of metastatic breast carcinoma in the neoadjuvant setting.Design.-We reviewed retrospectively the results of intraoperative evaluations for 148 different sentinel lymph nodes from 63 patients who had undergone neoadjuvant chemotherapy for invasive breast cancer at our institution. The intraoperative touch preparation results were compared with the final pathology reports in conjunction with relevant clinical data.Results.-Use of touch preparation for the evaluation of sentinel lymph nodes intraoperatively after neoadjuvant therapy was associated with a low sensitivity of 38.6% (95% confidence interval [CI], 24.4-54.5) but high specificity of 100% (95% CI, 96.5-100). There was no difference in sensitivity rates between cytopathologists and noncytopathologists in this cohort (P=.40). Patients with invasive lobular carcinoma and those who had a clinically positive axilla before the initiation of neoadjuvant therapy were the most likely to have a false-negative result at surgery.Conclusions.-Intraoperative touch preparations should not be used alone for the evaluation of sentinel lymph nodes in the setting of neoadjuvant therapy for breast cancer because of low overall sensitivity.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clonal profiling of mixed lobular and ductal carcinoma revealed by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and fluorescence in situ hybridization	A needle biopsy of a mass in the right breast of a 36-year-old woman revealed invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), and approximately 20% of cancer cells showed unequivocal membranous staining with the HercepTest. After systemic therapy with trastuzumab and paclitaxel followed by FEC (fluorouracil + epirubicin + cyclophosphamide), a right mastectomy was performed. By histological and immunohistochemical examinations, the resected tumor consisted mainly of E-cadherin-negative invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC), and the rest was ERBB2-positive IDC; thus, the diagnosis was mixed ductal and lobular carcinoma. Multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analyses revealed that ILC and IDC shared high-level amplification of CCND1 in homogeneously staining regions (HSR) and that IDC had an additional HSR-type amplicon of ERBB2. These findings strongly indicate that IDC and ILC had a common precursor cell with CCND1 amplification. Review of the biopsy specimen with FISH showed IDC with gene amplifications of CCND1 and ERBB2 as a minor component, IDC without amplification of CCND1 or ERBB2 as a major component, and a minute portion of ILC with CCND1 amplification. We speculate that chemotherapy and trastuzumab caused a marked reduction in IDC; however, ILC with CCND1 amplification was resistant to chemotherapy and grew.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Clinicopathological Study of Early-Stage Synchronous Bilateral Breast Cancer: A Retrospective Evaluation and Prospective Validation of Potential Risk Factors	Background: The aim of the present study was to investigate potential risk factors for synchronous bilateral breast cancer sBBC).Methods: A retrospective analysis was performed of patients diagnosed and treated with operable bilateral breast cancer (BBC) between June 2007 and December 2011. Risk factors for sBBC were evaluated in this cohort and further validated in a prospective observational validation analysis of patients between January 2012 and December 2012. Patients treated with operable unilateral breast cancer during the same period were used as a control group.Results: A total of 11,247 patients with primary breast cancer underwent operations at the Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center between June 2007 and December 2012. The incidence of sBBC was 1.6%. The age at diagnosis (HR = 2.4, 95% C.I.: 1.4-4.0, p = 0.001), presence of sclerosing adenosis (HR = 11.8, 95% C.I.: 5.3-26.3, p<0.001), lobular carcinoma component involvement (HR = 5.6, 95% C.I.: 2.6-12.1, p<0.001), and family history of first-degree relatives with breast cancer (HR = 2.0, 95% C.I.: 1.1-3.4, p<0.001) were independent risk factors for sBBC. A subsequent validation study failed to confirm the significance of family history. No significant difference on survival was found between patients with early-stage sBBC and control cases.Conclusions: Patients with the presence of sclerosing in the affected breast, and lobular carcinoma component involvement may be at high risk for developing sBBC. This study supports the hypothesis that the host-carcinoma biological relationship, especially for the tumor microenvironment, played a critical role in the carcinogenesis of sBBC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Quantitative breast tissue characterization using grating-based x-ray phase-contrast imaging	X-ray its high capability in visualizing soft tissue. Breast imaging became the focus of particular attention as it is considered the most promising candidate for a first clinical application of this contrast modality. In this study, we investigate quantitative breast tissue characterization using grating-based phase-contrast computed tomography (CT) at conventional polychromatic x-ray sources. Different breast specimens have been scanned at a laboratory phase-contrast imaging setup and were correlated to histopathology. Ascertained tumor types include phylloides tumor, fibroadenoma and infiltrating lobular carcinoma. Identified tissue types comprising adipose, fibroglandular and tumor tissue have been analyzed in terms of phase-contrast Hounsfield units and are compared to high-quality, high-resolution data obtained with monochromatic synchrotron radiation, as well as calculated values based on tabulated tissue properties. The results give a good impression of the method's prospects and limitations for potential tumor detection and the associated demands on such a phase-contrast breast CT system. Furthermore, the evaluated quantitative tissue values serve as a reference for simulations and the design of dedicated phantoms for phase-contrast	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Role of Lipolysis Stimulated Lipoprotein Receptor in Breast Cancer and Directing Breast Cancer Cell Behavior	The claudin-low molecular subtype of breast cancer is of particular interest for clinically the majority of these tumors are poor prognosis, triple negative, invasive ductal carcinomas. Claudin-low tumors are characterized by cancer stem cell-like features and low expression of cell junction and adhesion proteins. Herein, we sought to define the role of lipolysis stimulated lipoprotein receptor (LSR) in breast cancer and cancer cell behavior as LSR was recently correlated with tumor-initiating features. We show that LSR was expressed in epithelium, endothelium, and stromal cells within the healthy breast tissue, as well as in tumor epithelium. In primary breast tumor bioposies, LSR expression was significantly correlated with invasive ductal carcinomas compared to invasive lobular carcinomas, as well as ER alpha positive tumors and breast cancer cell lines. LSR levels were significantly reduced in claudin-low breast cancer cell lines and functional studies illustrated that reintroduction of LSR into a claudin-low cell line suppressed the EMT phenotype and reduced individual cell migration. However, our data suggest that LSR may promote collective cell migration. Re-introduction of LSR in claudin-low breast cancer cell lines reestablished tight junction protein expression and correlated with transepithelial electrical resistance, thereby reverting claudin-low lines to other intrinsic molecular subtypes. Moreover, overexpression of LSR altered gene expression of pathways involved in transformation and tumorigenesis as well as enhanced proliferation and survival in anchorage independent conditions, highlighting that reestablishment of LSR signaling promotes aggressive/tumor initiating cell behaviors. Collectively, these data highlight a direct role for LSR in driving aggressive breast cancer behavior.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cutaneous metastasis of breast cancer previously diagnosed 25 years ago		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Does failure to achieve clear surgical margins at initial breast conserving surgery affect outcome in early breast cancer?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of D-dimers in assessing the degree of expression of coagulopathy in patients with breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The clinical and imaging overview of synchronous and metachronous breast cancer and thyroid cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer detection rates in patients with 83 breast lesions: A 10 year retrospective review		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Response and prognosis after neoadjuvant chemotherapy in 1,051 patients with infiltrating lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CDH1 and genetic predisposition to lobular breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Aggressive tumour biology in breast cancer: The relationship with age and race in South Africa		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical outcome of triple-negative non-metastatic breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Efficacy of the intraoperative entirely circumferential frozen section analysis: To reduce reoperation rates after breast conserving surgery for breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The influence of preoperative MRI on the surgical management and outcome in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neurological advantage of video-assisted breast surgery over the conventional surgery for early breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	F-18-FDG-PET/CT thyroid incidentaloma in primary breast cancer patients: A retrospective case-control study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of CD44+/ CD24-/ low biomarker for screening, diagnosis and monitoring of breast cancer	Cancer stem cells (CSCs) have been defined as a cell within a tumor that possesses the capacity to self-renew and to cause the heterogeneous lineages of cancer cells that comprise the tumor'. The CSC hypothesis postulates that a small subpopulation of cancer cells drives tumor initiation, growth and metastasis. CSCs have been isolated from breast cancer using CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) phenotype. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the expression of CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) in two diverse breast carcinomas (ductal and lobular), and to determine the correlation between expression of CD44(+)/CD24(-/low), and clinicopathological characteristics starting from human fresh breast cancer specimens. We analyzed specimens from 57 patients using CD44 and CD24 markers by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry and correlated the CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) phenotype with clinicopathological characteristics. Moreover, mammosphere formation was tested. In all specimens tested, CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) phenotype was detectable with mean percentage of 4.73% as confirmed also by immunohistochemical analyses. A significant statistical association was found among these phenotypic groups and age, grade G3, estrogen and progesterone receptor, Ki-67 as well as lymph node metastasis. No correlation was found for histological type. In conclusion, our data showed that CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) phenotype was found at a high frequency in tumors pT2, G3, pN3, positive for Ki-67, and negative for estrogen and progesterone receptors highlighting the hypothesis that CD44(+)/CD24(-/low) profile correlates with the more aggressive clinical-pathological features of the disease.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinoma Cell Lines Are Characterized by Unique Estrogen-Mediated Gene Expression Patterns and Altered Tamoxifen Response	Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is a histologic subtype of breast cancer that is frequently associated with favorable outcomes, as approximately 90% of ILC express the estrogen receptor (ER). However, recent retrospective analyses suggest that patients with ILC receiving adjuvant endocrine therapy may not benefit as much as patients with invasive ductal carcinoma. On the basis of these observations, we characterized ER function and endocrine response in ILC models. The ER-positive ILC cell lines MDA MB 134VI (MM134) and SUM44PE were used to examine the ER-regulated transcriptome via gene expression microarray analyses and ER ChIP-Seq, and to examine response to endocrine therapy. In parallel, estrogen response was assessed in vivo in the patient-derived ILC xenograft HCI-013. We identified 915 genes that were uniquely E2 regulated in ILC cell lines versus other breast cancer cell lines, and a subset of these genes were also E2 regulated in vivo in HCI-013. MM134 cells were de novo tamoxifen resistant and were induced to grow by 4-hydroxytamoxifen, as well as other antiestrogens, as partial agonists. Growth was accompanied by agonist activity of tamoxifen on ER-mediated gene expression. Though tamoxifen induced cell growth, MM134 cells required fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR)-1 signaling to maintain viability and were sensitive to combined endocrine therapy and FGFR1 inhibition. Our observation that ER drives a unique program of gene expression in ILC cells correlates with the ability of tamoxifen to induce growth in these cells. Targeting growth factors using FGFR1 inhibitors may block survival pathways required by ILC and reverse tamoxifen resistance. (c) 2014 AACR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Outcomes of Sentinel Lymph Node Dissection Alone vs. Axillary Lymph Node Dissection in Early Stage Invasive Lobular Carcinoma: A Retrospective Study of the Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) Database	Background: The American College of Surgeons Oncology Group (ACOSOG) Z0011 trial demonstrated no difference in local-regional recurrence (LRR), disease-specific survival (DSS) or overall survival (OS) for sentinel lymph node dissection (SLND) and completion axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) among patients undergoing breast-conserving therapy for clinical T1-T2, N0 breast cancer with 1 or 2 positive SLNs. However, Only 7% of study participants had invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC). Because ILC has a different pattern of metastases, frequently presenting as small foci requiring immunohistochemistry for detection, the applicability of ACOSOG Z0011 trial data to ILC patients is unclear.Study Design: We identified all ILC patients in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database (1998-2009) who met the ACOSOG Z0011 eligibility criteria. Patients were evaluated on the basis of the extent of axillary surgery (SLND alone or ALND), and the clinical outcomes of these 2 groups were compared.Results: 1269 patients (393 SLND and 876 ALND) were identified from the SEER database. At a median follow-up time of 71 months, there were no differences in OS or disease-specific survival between the two groups.Conclusion: SLND alone may result in outcomes comparable to those achieved with ALND for patients with early-stage ILC who meet the ACOSOG Z0011 eligibility criteria.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast: long-term prognostic value of Ki67 and histological grade, alone and in combination with estrogen receptor	Background: The aim of the present study was to investigate the long-term impact of prognostic factors in invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) of the breast, with a primary focus on Ki67 and histological grade, alone and in combination with estrogen receptor (ER).Material and methods: One hundred and ninety two well-characterised patients with ILC were included in the study. Ki67, histological grade and ER were evaluated and combined into a prognostic index (KiGE). All grade 1 tumours and ER-positive (ER+) grade 2 tumours with Ki67 <= 30% were classified as low-KiGE and all the others as high-KiGE.Results: Overall, 31% of the patients have died from breast cancer. The median follow-up of the patients still alive was 21 years. Age, tumour size, axillary lymph node status (nodal status), histological grade, Ki67 and KiGE were significant prognostic factors for breast cancer mortality (BCM) in univariable analysis. In a multivariable model, adjusted for adjuvant treatment, age and progesterone receptor (PgR), the strongest prognostic factors for BCM were: Nodal status (hazard ratio (HR) = 2.9, 95% confidence interval (95% CI): 1.4-6.1), KiGE (HR = 2.0, 95% CI: 1.1-3.6), and tumour size (HR = 1.9, 95% CI: 0.98-3.8). By combining these three factors, 37% of the ILC's could be further divided into a low-risk group, consisting of node negative small (= 20 mm) low-KiGE tumours, with a BCM of 5% (95% CI: 1-13%) at 10 years and 12% (95% CI: 5-22%) at 20 years follow-up. None of these patients recieved chemotherapy and only 2 recieved endocrine treatment with tamoxifen.Conclusions: The combination of Ki67, histological grade and ER into KiGE, together with tumour size and nodal status make it possible to identify a large group of ILC patients with such a good long-term prognosis that chemotherapy can be safely avoided and exclusion of endocrine therapy considered.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CAMTA1 Immunostaining Is Not Useful in Differentiating Epithelioid Hemangioendothelioma from Its Potential Mimickers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Heterogeneity within Triple-Negative Breast Cancer with Follow-Up		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Frozen-Section Diagnosis of Breast Cancer: Discrepancy Rate, and Number of Lymph Nodes and Optimal Number of Sentinel Lymph Node Examined		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Quantitative Gene Expression by RT-PCR in Classic and Variant Lobular Carcinoma in ER plus Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Re-Excision Rates of Invasive Ductal Carcinoma with Lobular Features Compared to Pure Invasive Ductal Carcinoma and Invasive Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Carcinoma, Primary and Brain Metastases: Morphology, Immunophenotype and Novel Markers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oncotype DX in ER Positive Breast Cancer with isolated Tumor Cells (pN0i) or Micro Metastases (pN1mi) in Lymph Node		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CD68 Expression in Locally Advanced Breast Carcinoma Assosication with Clinicopathological Parameters and Survival		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Rate of Upgrade for Lobular Neoplasia in MRI-Guided Core Needle Biopsy: A Study of 63 Cases from Four Different Institutions		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic Yield of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)-Guided Core Needle Biopsies for Early Detection of Breast Cancer in a Cohort of 546 Patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Upgrade to Invasive Carcinoma or Ductal Carcinoma In Situ (DCIS) in Patients Diagnosed with Lobular Neoplasia (LN) on Core Needle Biopsy (CNB): A Prospective Study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Value of Coexisting Lobular Carcinoma In Situ with Invasive Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Telomere Length Alterations in Invasive Lobular Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinico-Pathological Determinants of Neoadjuvant Treatment Response in Breast Cancer: An Analysis of 75 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of Immunohistochemical (IHC) Expression of DC-SCRIPT in Mammary Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of RICTOR Overexpression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma: Cytoplasmic Immunoreactivity Independently Predicts Disease Recurrence		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparative Sensitivities and Specificities of Antibodies to Breast Markers GCDFP-15, Mammaglobin A, and Different Clones of GATA-3		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular Intraepithelial Lesions on Core Biopsies: To Excise or Not to Excise?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Association of Sentinel/Axillary Lymph Node Metastasis with Lymph Node Reactive Patterns and FOXP-3 Positive T Regulatory Cells in Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytokeratin 17 Trends toward Overexpression in Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma but Is Unrelated to Sox2 Expression		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Subclassifying Lobular Carcinoma In-Situ (LCIS) Based on Phosphohistone H3 (PHH3)-Detected Mitotic Index		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	If Re-Excision Is Necessary When Invasive Mammary Carcinoma Is within 1 mm to Inked Margin and If Tumor Focality or Ductal or Lobular Plays a Role on Residual Tumor		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Adverse Prognostic Significance of BRG1 Protein Expression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Value of Ki67 Proliferation Index in Identifying Patients with High-Risk Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Aberrant Expression of Napsin A in Breast Carcinoma with Apocrine Features		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	GATA-3 Expression in Morphologic Subtypes of Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnosis of Breast Needle Core Biopsies Using Whole Slide Imaging		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Direct Autofluoresence Visualization to Guide Breast Specimen Grossing: A Proof-of-Concept		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Multi-Gene Mutational Profiling of Breast Carcinoma Using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	alpha-Parvin, a pseudopodial constituent, promotes cell motility and is associated with lymph node metastasis of lobular breast carcinoma	Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is more frequently lymph node positive than is invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), and ILC cell infiltration shows distinctive histological characteristics, suggesting the action of ILC-specific invasion molecules. To identify such a molecule, we used a proteomic approach in the pseudopodia of MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells. A pseudopodial constituent was identified using excimer laser ablation, two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis, mass spectroscopy, and immunocytofluorescence. MDA-MB-231 cells were modified to express various levels of this constituent by transient transfection and were examined for pseudopodia formation and migratory abilities using wound healing and two-chamber assays. Immunohistochemical positivity of human breast cancer cells (56 ILCs and 21 IDCs) was compared with clinicopathological variables. An actin-binding adaptor protein, alpha-parvin, was found to localize to pseudopodia and to form focal adhesions in cells not induced to extend pseudopodia. Pseudopodial length and density and migratory abilities correlated with alpha-parvin expression. Twenty-one (37.5 %) ILCs stained positive for alpha-parvin, whereas the results were negative for all 21 IDCs (P < 0.001). alpha-Parvin positivity in ILC was significantly associated with lymphatic invasion (P = 0.038) and lymph node metastasis (P = 0.003) in univariate analyses and to lymph node metastasis (P = 0.020) in multivariate analyses. alpha-Parvin, a pseudopodial constituent, was found to promote migration of breast cancer cells and to be expressed exclusively by ILC, suggesting that alpha-parvin is an ILC-specific invasion molecule that may have clinical utility as a biomarker for aggressive subsets of ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Response and prognosis after neoadjuvant chemotherapy in 1,051 patients with infiltrating lobular breast carcinoma	Invasive lobular carcinomas (ILC) show better clinical behaviour compared with other histological types, but significantly lower pathological complete response (pCR) rates after neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT). We investigated whether factors influencing pCR rate in ILC after NACT can be identified and whether clinical outcome is different. 9,020 breast cancer patients from nine German neoadjuvant trials with known histological type were pooled. 11.7 % of tumours were ILC. Endpoints were: pCR rate, surgery type and survival. ILC was associated with older age, larger tumour size, lymph node negativity, lower grade and positive hormone-receptor-status (HR). Patients with ILC achieved a significantly lower pCR rate compared with non-ILC patients (6.2 vs. 17.4 %, P < 0.001). The pCR rate was 4.2 % in ILC/HR+/G1-2, 7.0 % in ILC with either HR- or G3, and 17.8 % in ILC/HR-/G3. Mastectomy rate was higher in ILC compared with non-ILC patients irrespective of response to NACT (pCR: 27.4 vs. 16.6 %, P = 0.037 and non-pCR: 41.8 % vs. 31.5 %, P < 0.0001). Age and HR independently predicted pCR in ILC. In ILC patients, pCR did not predict distant disease free (DDFS) and loco-regional disease free survival (LRFS), but overall survival (OS). Non-pCR patients with ILC had significantly better DDFS (P = 0.018), LRFS (P < 0.0001) and OS (P = 0.044) compared with non-ILC patients. Patients with ILC had a low chance of obtaining a pCR and this is not well correlated with further outcome. The mastectomy rate was considerably high in ILC patients even after obtaining a pCR. We, therefore, suggest to offer NACT mainly to ILC patients with HR-negative tumours.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Heterogeneity within Triple-Negative Breast Cancer with Follow-Up		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Frozen Section Diagnosis of Breast Cancer: Discrepancy Rate, and Number of Lymph Nodes and Optimal Number of Sentinel Lymph Node Examined		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Re-Excision Rates of Invasive Ductal Carcinoma with Lobular Features Compared to Pure Invasive Ductal Carcinoma and Invasive Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	High Mobility Group A1 (HMGA1) Proteins in Invasive Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oncotype DX in ER Positive Breast Cancer with isolated Tumor Cells (pN0i) or Micro Metastases (pN1mi) in Lymph Node		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Rate of Upgrade for Lobular Neoplasia in MRI-Guided Core Needle Biopsy: A Study of 63 Cases from Four Different Institutions		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic Yield of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)-Guided Core Needle Biopsies for Early Detection of Breast Cancer in a Cohort of 546 Patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Enrichment for PI3K Pathway Mutations in Metastatic Low Proliferative Rate ER plus Breast Cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of Prognostic Breast Markers in Synchronous Invasive Bilateral Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Upgrade Rate for High Risk Lesions Diagnosed by MRI Guided Needle Core Biopsy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Value of Coexisting Lobular Carcinoma In Situ with Invasive Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Telomere Length Alterations in Invasive Lobular Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinico-Pathological Determinants of Neoadjuvant Treatment Response in Breast Cancer: An Analysis of 75 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of Immunohistochemical (IHC) Expression of DC-SCRIPT in Mammary Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of RICTOR Overexpression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma: Cytoplasmic Immunoreactivity Independently Predicts Disease Recurrence		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathological Characterization of pT1a,b pN0 M0 Breast Cancer - Impact on Treatment Decision in the ODISSEE Cohort		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular Intraepithelial Lesions on Core Biopsies:To Excise or Not to Excise?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytokeratin 17Trends toward Overexpression in Triple-Negative Breast Carcinoma but Is Unrelated to Sox2 Expression		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Radial Scar/Complex Sclerosing Lesions: A Clinicopathologic Correlation Study from a Single Institution		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	If Re-Excision Is Necessary When Invasive Mammary Carcinoma Is within 1 mm to Inked Margin and If Tumor Focality or Ductal or Lobular Plays a Role on Residual Tumor		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Adverse Prognostic Significance of BRG1 Protein Expression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Value of Ki67 Proliferation Index in Identifying Patients with High-Risk Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Aberrant Expression of Napsin A in Breast Carcinoma with Apocrine Features		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	GATA-3 Expression in Morphologic Subtypes of Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Nuclear H&E Staining Pattern in Flat Epithelial Atypia of the Breast Predicts Presence of Carcinoma on Excision: A Digital Image Based Histopathologic Analysis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnosis of Breast Needle Core Biopsies Using Whole Slide Imaging		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Multi-Gene Mutational Profiling of Breast Carcinoma Using Next Generation Sequencing (NGS)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The unexpected role of Hemoglobin beta (HBB) in breast cancer.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Early Biomarkers in Breast Cancer	Breast cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer deaths in women worldwide. However, over the last few decades, there has been a steady decline in mortality rates due to increasingly effective adjuvant medical treatments. Mammography screening programs have increased the diagnosis of early-stage breast cancer with better prognosis. Moreover, the discovery of specific prognostic and predictive biomarkers in the past few years has enormously helped in the early detection and treatment of breast cancer. With the advent of high-throughput technologies, more and more biomarkers based on either genomics or proteomics are being explored for early detection as well as better prognosis of the breast cancer. This chapter focuses on the traditional as well as novel biomarkers that are being used or proposed to use for early prognosis, diagnosis, as well as treatment of the breast cancer to reduce morbidity as well as mortality.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Correlation of HER2 overexpression with gene amplification and its relation to chromosome 17 aneuploidy: a 5-year experience with invasive ductal and lobular carcinomas	The HER2 oncogene shows expression or amplification, or both, in approximately 15% to 20% of breast cancers and has been associated with poor prognosis and a response to trastuzumab therapy. HER2 gene status determines the eligibility of breast cancer patients for trastuzumab therapy and a large fraction (41-56%) of these patients respond to targeted therapy. Several studies have related the increased expression of HER2 to an increased copy number of chromosome 17, rather than amplification of the HER2 gene. We compared the results of immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization in both invasive ductal and invasive lobular carcinomas, to determine the frequency of chromosome 17 aneuploidy associated with discordant results. In total, 390 invasive ductal carcinomas and 180 invasive lobular carcinomas diagnosed from January 2000 to December 2005 were included in the study only if results were available for immunohistochemistry (HercepTest; DAKO, Carpinteria, California) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (PathVysion HER2 DNA Probe Kit; Abbott Laboratories, Des Plaines, Illinois). Tumors classified as invasive ductal carcinomas were graded according to the Bloom-Richardson grading system. Correlation between the results of immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization was performed for all categories. Among invasive ductal carcinomas, 29% (115/390) showed chromosome 17 aneuploidy, mostly associated with grade 3/HER2 2+ (45%) or grade 2/HER2 3+ (55%) that were not amplified. Also, 34% (12/35) of invasive lobular carcinomas showed chromosome 17 aneuploidy; approximately one-third of these cases were HER2 2+ (33%) and HER2 3+ (37%) that were not amplified. Discordance between the results of immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization in both ductal and lobular carcinomas is largely associated with chromosome 17 aneuploidy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	GATA3: A Multispecific But Potentially Useful Marker in Surgical Pathology A Systematic Analysis of 2500 Epithelial and Nonepithelial Tumors	GATA3 is a transcription factor important in the differentiation of breast epithelia, urothelia, and subsets of T lymphocytes. It has been suggested to be useful in the evaluation of carcinomas of mammary or urothelial origin or metastatic carcinomas, but its distribution in normal and neoplastic tissues is incompletely mapped. In this study, we examined normal developing and adult tissues and 2040 epithelial and 460 mesenchymal or neuroectodermal neoplasms for GATA3 expression to explore its diagnostic value in surgical pathology, using monoclonal antibody (clone L50-823) and Leica Bond automated immunohistochemistry. GATA3 was expressed in trophoblast, fetal and adult epidermis, adult mammary and some salivary gland and sweat gland ductal epithelia, urothelia, distal nephron in developing and adult tissues, some prostatic basal cells, and subsets of T lymphocytes. It was expressed stronger in fetal than in adult mesothelia and was absent in respiratory and gastrointestinal epithelia. In epithelial neoplasms, GATA3 was expressed in >90% of primary and metastatic ductal and lobular carcinomas of the breast, urothelial, and cutaneous basal cell carcinomas and trophoblastic and endodermal sinus tumors. In metastatic breast carcinomas, it was more sensitive than GCDFP. Among squamous cell carcinomas, the expression was highest in the skin (81%) and lower in cervical (33%), laryngeal (16%), and pulmonary tu-mors (12%). Common positivity was found in skin adnexal tumors (100%), mesothelioma (58%), salivary gland (43%), and pancreatic (37%) ductal carcinomas, whereas frequency of expression in adenocarcinomas of lung, stomach, colon, endometrium, ovary, and prostate was <10%. Chromophobe renal cell carcinoma was a unique renal tumor with frequent positivity (51%), whereas oncocytomas were positive in 17% of cases but other types only rarely. Among mesenchymal and neuroectodermal tumors, paragangliomas were usually positive, which sets these tumors apart from epithelial neuroendocrine tumors. Mesenchymal tumors were only sporadically positive, except epithelia of biphasic synovial sarcomas. GATA3 is a useful marker in the characterization of not only mammary and urothelial but also renal and germ cell tumors, mesotheliomas, and paragangliomas. The multiple specificities of GATA3 should be taken into account when using this marker to detect metastatic mammary or urothelial carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of autophagy related proteins in invasive lobular carcinoma: comparison to invasive ductal carcinoma	The aim of this study is to compare the expression of autophagy related proteins in invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) with that of autophagy related proteins in invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), and to determinate its implication. Tissue microarray containing 114 ILC and 692 IDC was constructed, and immunohistochemistry was performed for autophagy related protein (beclin-1, LC3A, LC3B, p62) and Ki-67. No significant difference in expression of autophagy-related proteins between pleomorphic type (n = 12) and classic type (n = 102) of ILC was observed, whereas ILC and IDC showed distinguished features that tumoral beclin-1, stromal LC3A, tumoral LC3B, tumoral p62 were highly expressed in IDC and tumoral BNIP3 was highly expressed in ILC (P < 0.001). Beclin-1 expression was correlated with ER negativity (P = 0.016) and TNBC type (P = 0.024). BNIP3 expression was correlated with ER positivity (p = 0.040). Using multivariate Cox analysis, shorter overall survival was associated with tumoral beclin-1 positivity (hazard ratio: 21.19, 95% CI: 1.098-409.1, P = 0.043). In conclusion, ILC and IDC showed different expression pattern of autophagy-related proteins in tumor and stroma that demonstrated by higher expression of tumoral beclin-1, stromal LC3A, tumoral LC3B, tumoral p62 in IDC, and higher expression of tumoral BNIP3 in ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Long-term Statin Use and Risk of Breast Cancer-Letter		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Ultrasound-guided vacuum-assisted breast biopsy using Mammotome biopsy system for detection of breast cancer: results from two high volume hospitals	Ultrasound-guided vacuum-assisted breast biopsy (VABB) has been recently regarded as a feasible, effective, minimally invasive and safe method for removal of benign breast lesions without serious complications. The frequency of detection of noninvasive malignant breast lesions by ultrasound-guided VABB is increasing. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of the ultrasound-guided VABB using Mammotome biopsy system in the early detection of breast cancer. Retrospective review between January 2008 to March 2013 the First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine and Taizhou Hospital, Wenzhou Medical College. From January 2008 to March 2013, a total of 5232 ultrasound-guided VABB procedures were performed in 3985 patients whose mean ages were 36.3 years (range: 16-73). The histological results of 5232 ultrasound-guided VABB were retrospectively reviewed. Ultrasonography follow-up was performed at 3 to 6 month intervals in order to assess recurrence. Two hundred twenty three high risk lesions (comprising 59 papilloma, 57 papillomatosis, and 107 atypical hyperplasia) and 61 malignant lesions (comprising 23 ductal carcinoma in situ, 21 lobular carcinoma in situ, 12 infiltrating ductal carcinoma, and 5 infiltrating mucinous carcinoma) were identified. Sensitivity (100%) and diagnostic accuracy (100%) regarding the detection of malignancy were excellent for ultrasound-guided VABB using Mammotome biopsy system. Our results indicate that ultrasound-guided VABB using Mammotome biopsy system is an accurate technique for the sampling, diagnosis, and early detection of breast cancer. It is recommended that the Mammotome biopsy system could be as the method of choice for detecting nonpalpable early breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Preoperative breast MRI and surgical outcomes in elderly women with invasive ductal and lobular carcinoma: a population-based study	Existing evidence suggests that preoperative breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) might not improve surgical outcomes in the general breast cancer population. To determine if patients differentially benefit from breast MRI, we examined surgical outcomes-initial mastectomy, reoperation, and final mastectomy rates-among patients grouped by histologic type. We identified women diagnosed with early-stage breast cancer from 2004 to 2007 in the SEER-Medicare dataset. We classified patients as having invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC), mixed ductal/lobular carcinoma (IDLC) or other histologic type. Medicare claims were used to identify breast MRI and definitive surgeries during the initial surgical treatment episode. We used propensity score methods to account for the differential likelihood of exposure to MRI. Of the 20,332 patients who met our inclusion criteria for this study, 12.2 % had a preoperative breast MRI. Patients with ILC as compared to other histologic groups were most likely to receive MRI [OR 2.32; 95 % CI (2.02-2.67)]. In the propensity score-adjusted analyses, breast MRI was associated with an increased likelihood of an initial mastectomy for all patients and among all histologic subgroups. Among patients with ILC, having a breast MRI was associated with lower odds of a reoperation [OR 0.59; 95 % CI (0.40-0.86)], and an equal likelihood of a final mastectomy compared to similar patients without a breast MRI. Overall and among patients with IDC and IDLC, breast MRI was not significantly associated with a likelihood of a reoperation but was associated with greater odds of a final mastectomy. Our study provides evidence in support of the targeted use of preoperative breast MRI among patients with ILC to improve surgical planning; it does not provide evidence for the routine use of breast MRI among all newly diagnosed breast cancer patients or among patients with IDC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical 101: The pathology of breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation on the risk factors and prognosis for patients with synchronous bilateral breast cancer in a Chinese cohort		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical benefits of using nomogram for predicting positive resection margins in breast conserving surgery		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Accurate assessment of HER2 status in "triple-negative" breast cancer requires both IHC and FISH testing		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A microgenomic approach using LCM procured breast cancer cells to identify clinically relevant gene signatures that underlie favorable response of ILC to aromatase inhibitors		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PIK3CA mutations are enriched in invasive lobular carcinomas and invasive mammary carcinomas with lobular features: Results from a TCGA sub-analysis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Endocrine response in invasive lobular carcinoma is characterized by unique estrogen-mediated gene expression and de novo tamoxifen resistance		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	5-year disease free-survival results of aggressively-treated breast cancer during pregnancy: Results from a French multicenter study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical - Early breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Multi-Institutional Comparison of Whole Slide Digital Imaging and Optical Microscopy for Interpretation of Hematoxylin-Eosin-Stained Breast Tissue Sections	Context.-Whole slide imaging (WSI) is now used for educational purposes, for consultation, and for archiving and quantitation of immunostains. However, it is not routinely used for the primary diagnosis of hematoxylineosin-stained tissue sections.Objective.-To compare WSI using the Aperio digital pathology system (Aperio Technologies, Inc, Vista, California) with optical microscopy (OM) for the interpretation of hematoxylin-eosin-stained tissue sections of breast lesions.Design.-The study was conducted at 3 clinical sites; 3 breast pathologists interpreted 150 hematoxylin-eosinstained slides at each site, 3 times each by WSI and 3 times each by OM. For WSI, slides were scanned using an Aperio ScanScope and interpreted on a computer monitor using Aperio ImageScope software and Aperio Spectrum data management software. Pathologic interpretations were recorded using the College of American Pathologists breast checklist. WSI diagnoses were compared with OM diagnoses for accuracy, precision (interpathologist variation), and reproducibility (intrapathologist variation).Results were considered accurate only if the interpretation matched exactly between WSI and OM. The proportion of accurate results reported by each pathologist was expressed as a percentage for the comparison of the 2 platforms. Results.-The accuracy of WSI for classifying lesions as not carcinoma or as noninvasive (ductal or lobular) or invasive (ductal, lobular, or other) carcinoma was 90.5%. The accuracy of OM was 92.1%. The precision and reproducibility of WSI and OM were determined on the basis of pairwise comparisons (3 comparisons for each slide, resulting in 36 possible comparisons). The overall precision of WSI was 90.5% in comparison with 92.1% for OM; reproducibility of WSI was 91.6% in comparison with 94.5% for OM, respectively.Conclusions.-In this study, we demonstrated that WSI and OM have similar accuracy, precision, and reproducibility for interpreting hematoxylin-eosin-stained breast tissue sections. Further clinical studies using routine surgical pathology specimens would be useful to confirm these findings and facilitate the incorporation of WSI into diagnostic practice.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Genomic profiling of histological special types of breast cancer	Histological special types of breast cancer have distinctive morphological features and account for up to 25 % of all invasive breast cancers. We sought to determine whether at the genomic level, histological special types of breast cancer are distinct from grade- and estrogen receptor (ER)-matched invasive carcinomas of no special type (IC-NSTs), and to define genes whose expression correlates with gene copy number in histological special types of breast cancer. We characterized 59 breast cancers of ten histological special types using array-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH). Hierarchical clustering revealed that the patterns of gene copy number aberrations segregated with ER-status and histological grade, and that samples from each of the breast cancer histological special types preferentially clustered together. We confirmed the patterns of gene copy number aberrations previously reported for lobular, micropapillary, metaplastic, and mucinous carcinomas. On the other hand, metaplastic and medullary carcinomas were found to have genomic profiles similar to those of grade- and ER-matched IC-NSTs. The genomic aberrations observed in invasive carcinomas with osteoclast-like stromal giant cells support its classification as IC-NST variant. Integrative aCGH and gene expression analysis led to the identification of 145 transcripts that were significantly overexpressed when amplified in histological special types of breast cancer. Our results illustrate that together with histological grade and ER-status, histological type is also associated with the patterns and complexity of gene copy number aberrations in breast cancer, with adenoid cystic and mucinous carcinomas being examples of ER-negative and ER-positive breast cancers with distinctive repertoires of gene copy number aberrations.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Ethnic differences in breast cancer risk and survival: A study on immigrants in Sweden	Background. There are large geographic differences in breast cancer risk but whether survival differs between low- and high-risk groups is less well-established. As the survival of cancer depends on the level of healthcare and awareness of disease risks, subtle differences in cancer biology cannot be revealed in international comparisons. Instead, comparison of diverse immigrant groups in a country of uniformly accessible healthcare system should enable conclusions to be made about ethnic determinants of cancer risk and survival. Material and methods. The Swedish Family-Cancer Database was used to calculate standardized incidence (SIRs) and hazard ratios (HRs) of death from female breast cancer in 12 505 and 137 547 patients diagnosed with breast cancer among immigrants and Swedes, respectively. The ratios were adjusted for age, period, region, parity, and age at first childbirth. Ordinal logistic regression analysis was used to estimate odds ratios (ORs) for the clinical TNM classes. The analyses were stratified by menopausal status and histology. Results. Turks, Southeast Asians, and Chileans had the lowest breast cancer risk (SIR = 0.44; 95% CI 0.37-0.51) and Iraqis the highest risk (1.19; 1.05-1.35), mainly due to premenopausal cancer (1.51; 1.27-1.78). The HRs for all breast cancers were between 0.98 (0.81-1.18) (low-risk Europeans) and 1.24 (0.94-1.63) (lowest-risk non-Europeans), but were not significant. No differences in survival of ductal carcinoma between immigrants and Swedes were found, while low-risk non-Europeans had a HR of 2.88 (1.37-6.08) for lobular carcinoma. Low-risk non-Europeans were diagnosed in a higher T-class (OR = 1.87; 1.21-2.87) than Swedes. Conclusion. We did not find any evidence that ethnic differences in breast cancer risk substantially affect the survival. The observed poor survival of some low-risk immigrants in lobular carcinoma may be related to treatment. The tendency of low-risk immigrants to present with higher T-class compared to Swedes may depend on their lower participation in the mammography screening program.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Metastasis to Gastrointestinal Tract from Breast Cancer with Benign Findings on Endoscopy: Report of 3 Cases and Literature Review		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Long-Term Statin Use and Risk of Breast Cancer-Letter		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Thrombospondin-4 expression is activated during the stromal response to invasive breast cancer	The thromobospondins are a family of extracellular glycoproteins that are activated during tissue remodeling processes such as embryogenesis, wound healing and cancer. Thrombospondin-4 (THBS4) is known to have roles in cellular migration, adhesion and attachment, as well as proliferation in different contexts. Data to support a role in cancer biology is increasing, including for gastrointestinal and prostate tumours. Here, using a combination of immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence and analysis of publicly available genomic and expression data, we present the first study describing the pattern of expression of THBS4 in normal breast and breast cancer. THBS4 was located to the basement membrane of large ducts and vessels in normal breast tissue, but was absent from epithelium and extracellular matrix. There was a significant induction in expression in cancer-associated stroma relative to normal stroma (P = 0.0033), neoplastic epithelium (P < 0.0001) and normal epithelium (P < 0.0001). There was no difference in stromal expression of THBS4 between invasive ductal carcinomas (IDC) and invasive lobular carcinomas (ILC). The THBS4 mRNA levels were variable yet were generally highest in tumours typically rich in stromal content (ILC, ER positive low grade IDC; luminal A and normal-like subtypes). Genomic alterations of the THBS4 gene (somatic mutations and gene copy number) are rare suggesting this dramatic activation in expression is most likely dynamically regulated through the interaction between invading tumour cells and stromal fibroblasts in the local microenvironment. In summary, THBS4 expression in breast cancer-associated extracellular matrix contributes to the activated stromal response exhibited during tumour progression and this may facilitate invasion of tumour cells.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Treatment of peritoneal carcinomatosis from breast cancer by maximal cytoreduction and HIPEC: A preliminary report on 5 cases	Although peritoneal carcinomatosis from breast cancer is a rare event it frequently causes morbidity and mortality. Current literature provides scarce information on its management. We report outcomes in 5 patients (mean age 59.4 years) with peritoneal carcinomatosis from breast cancer treated with maximal cytoreduction and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) by the closed technique, at 40 degrees C for 1 h with cisplatin 75 mg/m(2). The primary breast cancer was a ductal carcinoma in 3 patients and a lobular carcinoma in 2. Mean peritoneal cancer index was 20.2. In 4 of the 5 patients surgery achieved macroscopic complete cytoreduction. One patient died of disease at 56 months, 4 are alive and disease-free at 13, 45, 74 and 128 months.These encouraging outcomes suggest that cytoreduction and HIPEC is a promising approach to offer to highly selected patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis from breast cancer and that this approach merit investigation in a larger series. (C) 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neutrophils promote metastasis of invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma cells express unique estrogen-mediated genes and are de novo tamoxifen resistant		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Extended indications for skin sparing mastectomy and immediate breast reconstruction without compromising oncological safety		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunological subtypes in breast cancer are prognostic for invasive ductal but not for invasive lobular breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histopathologic characteristics and related variables in a study of 4,436 patients included in the Registry of Breast Cancer (Registro Cancer de Mama-RCM) of the Argentine Society of Mastology (SAM)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Long-Term Statin Use and Risk of Ductal and Lobular Breast Cancer among Women 55 to 74 Years of Age	Background: Mechanistic studies largely support the chemopreventive potential of statins. However, results of epidemiologic studies investigating statin use and breast cancer risk have been inconsistent and lacked the ability to evaluate long-term statin use.Methods: We used data from a population-based case-control study of breast cancer conducted in the Seattle-Puget Sound region to investigate the relationship between long-term statin use and breast cancer risk. Nine hundred sixteen invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) and 1,068 invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) cases in patients 55 to 74 years of age diagnosed between 2000 and 2008 were compared with 902 control women. All participants were interviewed in-person and data on hypercholesterolemia and all episodes of lipid-lowering medication use were collected through a structured questionnaire. We assessed the relationship between statin use and IDC and ILC risk using polytomous logistic regression.Results: Current users of statins for 10 years or longer had a 1.83-fold increased risk of IDC [95% confidence interval (CI): 1.14-2.93] and a 1.97-fold increased risk of ILC (95% CI: 1.25-3.12) compared with never users of statins. Among women diagnosed with hypercholesterolemia, current users of statins for 10 years or longer had more than double the risk of both IDC (OR: 2.04, 95% CI: 1.17-3.57) and ILC (OR: 2.43, 95% CI: 1.40-4.21) compared with never users.Conclusion: In this contemporary population-based case-control study, long-term use of statins was associated with increased risks of both IDC and ILC.Impact: Additional studies with similarly high frequencies of statin use for various durations are needed to confirm this novel finding. (C) 2013 AACR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Non-invasive Modality: The US Virtual Touch Tissue Quantification (VTTQ) for Evaluation of Breast Cancer	We evaluated the biologic features of breast tissues using a newly developed non-invasive diagnostic system, named virtual touch tissue quantification.A total of 180 patients including 115 invasive ductal carcinoma, 30 ductal carcinoma in situ, 4 mucinous carcinoma, 7 invasive lobular carcinoma, 8 fibroadenoma, 12 fibrocystic change and 4 intraductal papilloma were studied at Nahanishi Clinic, Okinawa. We first compared the results of virtual touch tissue quantification according to each histologic subtype and determined the optimal cutoff values for virtual touch tissue quantification to distinguish benign from malignant tissues, using the receiver operating characteristic method. In addition, we also examined the correlation between virtual touch tissue quantification velocities and Ki-67, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor or human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 in cases of invasive ductal carcinoma using linear regression analyses and Students t-test.Virtual touch tissue quantification velocities were statistically higher in malignant cases than in benign cases (P 0.05, respectively) and the best cutoff value for the virtual touch tissue quantification velocity which could differentiate benign from malignant cases was 2.89 m/s. There were statistically significant correlations between the virtual touch tissue quantification velocity and the Ki-67 labeling index (r 0.338, r(2) 0.114 and P 0.001) and significant inverse correlations between virtual touch tissue quantification and the estrogen receptor (r 0.311, r(2) 0.097 and P 0.001) or progesterone receptor (r 0.361, r(2) 0.131 and P 0.001) status of invasive ductal carcinoma. There were also significant differences of the average velocities between human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-positive (6.39 1.44 m/s) and -negative (4.43 1.41 m/s) cases (P 0.001).Virtual touch tissue quantification could be a valuable clinical tool for estimating breast cancer pathology in a non-invasive fashion.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Preserved Axin expression is associated with an aggressive phenotype in invasive breast carcinomas	Reduced Axin expression has been associated with an aggressive behavior in lung and esophageal squamous cell carcinomas. Its role in breast cancer has not been defined. The aim of our study was to investigate the expression pattern of Axin protein in invasive breast carcinomas, in relation to the behavior and prognosis of the disease. Immunohistochemistry was performed for the detection of Axin expression in 232 breast cancer tissues. Univariate and multivariate statistical analyses were used to assess the relation of Axin expression with classic clinicopathological parameters, patients' survival and various biologic markers Human Epidermal Factor-2 (HER-2), Ki-67, topoII, glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3)]. Preserved cytoplasmic Axin expression was positively correlated to lymph node invasion, HER-2 and GSK-3 and inversely to Ki-67 and topoII. Nuclear Axin was positively associated with tumor size. Stromal Axin showed a parallel association with lymph node status and HER-2. In the subgroup of lobular breast carcinomas, preserved Axin was found to exert an unfavorable impact on patients' overall survival. Our findings indicate, for the first time, that in invasive breast cancer preserved Axin expression is associated with a more aggressive phenotype and that in the discrete subtype of lobular breast carcinomas Axin negatively influences patients' overall survival.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive carcinoma and ductal carcinoma coexisting with Paget disease of the nipple		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder mimicking lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A prognostic tool to predict fatigue in women with early-stage breast cancer undergoing radiotherapy	Background: Fatigue during and after radiotherapy impacts negatively on normal functioning and quality of life. A pre-treatment estimate of the risk of fatigue would facilitate the targeting of timely interventions to limit consequential behavioural symptoms arising. We have developed a prognostic tool to predict the risk of fatigue in women with early-stage breast cancer undergoing radiotherapy.Methods: Socio-demographic, clinical and self-reported characteristics were recorded for 100 women prescribed adjuvant radiotherapy for stages Tis-T2N1 breast cancer. Multiple logistic regression was used to develop a parsimonious prognostic model. The performance of the model when predicting fatigue for individuals not in the study was estimated by a leave-one-out cross-validation. A statistical weighting was assigned to the model variables to render a Fatigue Propensity Score of between 0 and 15. The ability of the Propensity Score to discriminate fatigued participants was estimated via receiver operating characteristic curve analysis.Results: 38% of participants reported significant fatigue during radiotherapy. Fatigue risk was predicted by elevated pre-treatment fatigue and anxiety, and diagnoses other than invasive ductal carcinoma (ductal carcinoma in-situ, invasive lobular and rarer carcinoma subtypes). The positive predictive value of the prognostic model was 80%. A Propensity Score threshold of >6 corresponded to a specificity of 90.3% and a sensitivity of 76.3%. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve was 0.83 for the cross-validation sample.Conclusions: Application of the Fatigue Propensity Score in the patient pathway can help direct fatigue management resources at those patients most likely to benefit. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Nipple-sparing mastectomy: can preoperative biopsy findings predict retroareolar margin involvement?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oncogenic Variant RON160 Expression in Breast Cancer and its Potential as a Therapeutic Target by Small Molecule Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor	Aberrant expression of the RON receptor tyrosine kinase contributes to breast cancer malignancy. Although clinical trials of RON targeting are underway, the intriguing issue is the diversity of RON expression as evident by cancer cells expressing different variants including oncogenic RON160. The current study determines aberrant RON160 expression in breast cancer and its potential as a target for breast cancer therapy. Using mouse monoclonal antibody Zt/h12 in immunohistochemical staining of breast cancer tissue microarray, we observed that RON160 was expressed in high frequency in primary invasive ductal (77.2%, 61/79 cases), lobular (42.5%, 34/80 cases), and lymph node-involved (63.9%, 26/36 cases) breast cancer samples. Moreover, RON160 overexpression was predominantly observed in invasive ductal (26.6%, 21/79 cases) and lymph node-involved (33.3%, 12/36) cases. Among a panel of breast cancer cell lines analyzed, Du4475 cells naturally expressed RON160. Silencing RON160 expression by siRNA reduced Du4475 cell viability. Inhibition of RON160 signaling by tyrosine kinase inhibitor PHA665752 also suppressed Du4475 cell anchorage-independent growth and induced apoptotic cell death. Studies in vivo revealed that PHA665752 inhibited 3T3-RON160 and Du4475 cell-mediated tumor growth in mouse mammary fat pad. A 60% reduction in tumor volume compared to controls was achieved after a 13-day treatment. We conclude from these studies that RON160 is highly expressed in breast cancer and its signaling is integrated into cellular signaling network for tumor cell growth and survival. Experimental treatment by PHA665752 in Du4475 breast cancer xenograft model highlights the significance of RON160 as a drug target in molecular-targeted breast cancer therapy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histopathologcial and clonal study of combined lobular and ductal carcinoma of the breast	Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) clinically constitutes a risk factor for the subsequent development of either invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) or invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC). In order to approach the possibility of this common precursor of both ILC and IDC, we investigated combined lobular and ductal carcinomas. Thirty-two cases of lobular carcinoma were picked up out of 773 cases of operated breast carcinomas. The histopathological detailed re-examination using immunostain of E-cadherin and -catenin revealed a rather high frequency of combined lobular carcinomas than previous reports. Clinicopathologically, combined lobular carcinomas were younger and smaller than pure lobular carcinomas, and the cytological atypia was relatively low. These results suggested that combined lobular carcinomas could be detected in the earlier stage of breast cancer. Furthermore, the lobular and ductal components of combined carcinomas coexisted in the neighborhood and were distributed contiguously. The immunohistochemical phenotypes of both components were accorded in most combined cases. A genetic analysis using methylation-specific PCR on the HUMARA gene demonstrated that the same allele was inactivated in both lobular and ductal components in all detectable cases of combined carcinoma. Therefore, it is reasonable to assume that both lobular and ductal components of combined carcinomas are clonal and derived from the LCIS as the common precursor lesion, which may contradict the conventional concept that the lobular and ductal carcinomas arise from distinct differentiation pathways.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Use of immunohistochemistry in the diagnosis of problematic breast lesions	Most diagnoses in breast pathology can be made with H&E sections. Nevertheless immunohistochemistry plays a useful supplementary role. This article reviews the common uses of immunohistochemistry in diagnostic breast pathology. It is important to be aware of the limitations of individual antibodies. Such problems can often be overcome by using panels of antibodies. Quality control is also essential: internal and external controls should show appropriate staining. Immunohistochemistry must be interpreted in combination with the morphology seen on H&E sections. Myoepithelial markers, such as smooth muscle actin, smooth muscle myosin heavy chain and p63, are useful for distinguishing invasive carcinoma from sclerosing lesions and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), and in the classification of papillary lesions. Basal cytokeratins can help distinguish epithelial hyperplasia of usual type (UEH) and clonal proliferations such as DCIS and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS). UEH usually shows patchy expression whereas DCIS and other clonal proliferations are typically negative. E-cadherin can usually separate DCIS and LCIS: DCIS typically shows membrane staining and most LCIS is negative. Cytokeratins can be used to detect small nodal metastases or subtle invasive carcinomas such as invasive lobular carcinomas. Immunohistochemistry plays a useful role in diagnosing spindle cell lesions such as a panel of cytokeratins to identify spindle cell carcinomas. Immunohistochemistry is helpful in recognising metastases to the breast. Different antibodies are useful for different tumours: WT1 for ovarian carcinoma; TTF1 for pulmonary adenocarcinoma; S100, melan-A and HMB45 for melanoma; and lymphoid markers for lymphoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Morphological assessment of tumor-associated vessels: Automated image processing of whole tumor sections in invasive breast cancer.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Heterogeneity within triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC).		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Activation of NF-KB by Notch4/Int3 is Rbpj-independant		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Context-dependent Roles for p120-catenin in Metastatic Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Kikuchi's Lymphadenitis Developing in Lymph Nodes Draining Breast Carcinoma; a Study of Three Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Correlation of Immunoglobulin G Expression and Histological Subtype and Stage in Breast Cancer	Introduction: Recently, growing evidence indicates that immunoglobulins (Igs) are not only produced by mature B lymphocytes or plasma cells, but also by various normal cells types at immune privileged sites and neoplasm, including breast cancer. However, the association of breast cancer derived IgG with genesis and development of the disease has not yet been established.Methods: In this study we examined the expression of IgG in 186 breast cancers, 20 benign breast lesions and 30 normal breast tissues. Both immunohistochemistry with antibodies to Ig kappa (immunoglobulin G kappa light chain) and Ig gamma (immunoglobulin G heavy chain) and in situ hybridization with an antisense probe to IgG1 heavy chain constant region gene were performed. Various clinicopathological features were also analyzed.Results: We found that IgG is specifically expressed in human breast cancer cells. Both infiltrating ductal carcinoma and infiltrating lobular carcinoma had significantly greater numbers of Ig kappa and Ig gamma positive cancer cells as compared with medullary carcinoma, carcinoma in situ, and benign lesions (all p<0.05). In addition, IgG expression was correlated with breast cancer histological subtypes (p<0.01) and AJCC stages (p<0.05), with more abundance of IgG expression in more malignant histological subtypes or in more advanced stage of the disease.Conclusions: IgG expression in breast cancer cells is correlated with malignancy and AJCC stages of the cancers. This suggests that breast cancer derived IgG may be associated with genesis, development and prognosis of the cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Second harmonic generation reveals matrix alterations during breast tumor progression	Alteration of the extracellular matrix in tumor stroma influences efficiency of cell locomotion away from the primary tumor into surrounding tissues and vasculature, thereby affecting metastatic potential. We study matrix changes in breast cancer through the use of second harmonic generation (SHG) of collagen in order to improve the current understanding of breast tumor stromal development. Specifically, we utilize a quantitative analysis of the ratio of forward to backward propagating SHG signal (F/B ratio) to monitor collagen throughout ductal and lobular carcinoma development. After detection of a significant decrease in the F/B ratio of invasive but not in situ ductal carcinoma compared with healthy tissue, the collagen F/B ratio is investigated to determine the evolution of fibrillar collagen changes throughout tumor progression. Results are compared with the progression of lobular carcinoma, whose F/B signature also underwent significant evolution during progression, albeit in a different manner, which offers insight into varying methods of tissue penetration and collagen manipulation between the carcinomas. This research provides insights into trends of stromal reorganization throughout breast tumor development. (C) The Authors. Published by SPIE under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License. Distribution or reproduction of this work in whole or in part requires full attribution of the original publication, including its DOI.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	INVASIVE LOBULAR CARCINOMA VS INFILTRATING DUCTAL CARCINOMA OF BREAST: WHAT IS NEW?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STUDY OF C/T ANTIGENS AND TOPO2A EXPRESSION IN TRIPLE NEGATIVE BREAST CARCINOMAS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	IS BREAST CANCER A DIFFERENT DISEASE IN THE LOW SOCIOECONOMIC STATUS INDIAN PATIENTS?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BILATERAL BREAST CANCER IN A SOUTH-EAST ASIAN POPULATION, 2001-2010		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A COMPARISON OF RISK CLASSIFICATION AS ASSESSED BY THE MAMMAPRINT (R) AND ONCOTYPE DX (R) ASSAYS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	EARLY RESPONSE TO NEOADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY IN BREAST CANCER: MR IMAGING FOR PREDICTION OF PCR		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histology of Breast Cancer in Patients with Lynch Syndrome		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of Oncotype DX (TM) Recurrence Score by Histologic Subtype of Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Incidental High Risk Lesions in Reduction Mammaplasty Specimens: Analysis of 2351 Cases from Large Women's Health Centers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Synchronous Breast Cancers: Comparison of Racial Distribution in Pathologic Parameters of Aggressive Behavior		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MRI-Guided Needle Core Biopsies of Breast: Diagnostic Yield in 193 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A New Rabbit Monoclonal E-Cadherin Antibody Shows Higher Sensitivity Than Mouse Monoclonal E-Cadherin [HECD-1] Antibody in Infiltrating Ductal Cell Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Genomic Profiling of Histological Special Types of Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Male Breast Carcinoma: Clinicopathologic and Molecular Analysis of 89 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Negative Estrogen Receptor and HER2 Assays at Core Biopsy of Invasive Cancers Should Be Confirmed in the Surgical Specimens		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 2 (FGFR-2) Overexpression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma (BRCA)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Intraoperative Margin Assessment Significantly Improves Quality of Care in Patients Undergoing Breast Conserving Surgery		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prediction of a Pathological Complete Response Defined as ypT0/is ypNx in the Setting of a Preoperative Systemic Therapy (EC-T plus -Trastuzumab) of Invasive Breast Carcinoma by Evaluating bcl2 and TP53 on the Pretherapeutic Core Needle Biopsy Specimen		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Presence of Lobular Features Predicts Enrichment for PI3K Pathway Mutations among No Special Type Breast Cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BRST2, ER, e-Cadherin, CDX2, and NKX3.1 Utility in Distinguishing Diffuse Gastric from Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Correlation between MRI Findings and Gross and Microscopic Pathology in Total Mastectomy Cases: A Review of 109 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ARD1 Expression Correlates with Favorable Prognostic Variables in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma (MC)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	NIK- and IKK2-Binding Protein:A Novel Marker of Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 1 (FGFR-1) Overexpression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma (BRCA)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of Breast Pathologies Using Multi-Photon Microscopy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pathological Appraisal of Low Nuclear Grade Ductal Carcinoma In Situ of the Breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 3 (FGFR-3) Overexpression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma (BRCA)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histology of Breast Cancer in Patients with Lynch Syndrome		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of Oncotype DX (TM) Recurrence Score by Histologic Subtype of Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	GATA3 Expression in Different Subtypes of Invasive Breast Carcinoma and Comparison with GCDFP15 and Mammaglobin		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Synchronous Breast Cancers: Comparison of Racial Distribution in Pathologic Parameters of Aggressive Behavior		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PIK3CA Mutations Are Enriched in Special Type Invasive Mammary Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MRI-Guided Needle Core Biopsies of Breast: Diagnostic Yield in 193 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Low Estrogen Receptor Positive Breast Cancer: Is This a Distinct Group?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Bcl-2 Downregulation Is Predictive of Complete Pathologic Response Following Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A New Rabbit Monoclonal E-Cadherin Antibody Shows Higher Sensitivity Than Mouse Monoclonal E-Cadherin [HECD-1] Antibody in Infiltrating Ductal Cell Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Genomic Profiling of Histological Special Types of Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 2 (FGFR-2) Overexpression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma (BRCA)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Intraoperative Margin Assessment Significantly Improves Quality of Care in Patients Undergoing Breast Conserving Surgery		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prediction of a Pathological Complete Response Defined as ypT0/is ypNx in the Setting of a Preoperative Systemic Therapy (EC-T plus -Trastuzumab) of Invasive Breast Carcinoma by Evaluating bcl2 and TP53 on the Pretherapeutic Core Needle Biopsy Specimen		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Presence of Lobular Features Predicts Enrichment for PI3K Pathway Mutations among No Special Type Breast Cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BRST2, ER, e-Cadherin, CDX2, and NKX3.1 Utility in Distinguishing Diffuse Gastric from Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical Evaluation of TFF1 and TFF3 Expression in ER-Negative Breast Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Findings of Magnetic Resonance Imaging-Guided Breast Biopsy: A Radiologic and Pathologic Correlation Study from a Single Institution		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Significance of Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 1 (FGFR-1) Overexpression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma (BRCA)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	NKX3.1 Expression in Primary Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of Breast Pathologies Using Multi-Photon Microscopy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pathological Appraisal of Low Nuclear Grade Ductal Carcinoma In Situ of the Breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Hemolytic anemia due to passenger lymphocyte syndrome in solid malignancy patients treated with allogeneic natural killer cell products	Background Allogeneic natural killer (NK) cell products for treatment of solid organ malignancies were prepared by performing T (CD3+)-cell depletion on nonmobilized apheresis mononuclear cell collections. The products were not B-cell depleted. This report details two cases of passenger lymphocyte syndrome (PLS) after NK-cell infusion. Case Reports Patient 1 is a blood group A+ 56-year-old female with Stage IV ovarian carcinoma who received NK cells from an O+ donor. On Day +7 she developed new hemolytic anemia. Direct antiglobulin test (DAT) was positive for immunoglobulinG and C3, and the eluate contained anti-A. Subsequently, anti-A was identified on reverse typing. She was transfused with group O red blood cells (RBCs). By Day +12 she forward typed as O with anti-A and B on reverse typing. By Day +42, DAT was negative with only weak anti-A on reverse typing. Patient 2 is a blood group B+ 51-year-old female with metastatic lobular breast carcinoma who received NK cells from an O+ donor. On Day +7 she developed new hemolytic anemia. DAT was positive, and the eluate contained anti-A and -B. Anti-A reactivity was due to anti-A,B. The next day she developed new anti-B on reverse typing. She was transfused with O RBCs. Anti-B titer increased to a maximum of 512 on Day +12. At discharge on Day +29 her anti-B titer was still 32. Conclusions These patients developed PLS after infusion of NK cells. Because of these cases NK-cell products are now B (CD19+)-cell depleted at our institution, and this approach is recommended for other centers.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pre-operative factors indicating risk of multiple operations versus a single operation in women undergoing surgery for screen detected breast cancer	We aim to identify preoperative factors at diagnosis which could predict whether women undergoing wide local excision (WLE) would require further operations. 1593 screen-detected invasive and non-invasive breast cancers were reviewed. Age, presence of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), invasive cancer size on mammography, mammographic sign, tumour type, grade and confidence of the radiologist in malignancy were compared. 83%(1315/1593) of women had a WLE. Of these, 70%(919/1315) had a single operation, and 30%(396/1315) multiple operations. These included repeat WLE to clear margins (60%(238/396)), mastectomy (34%(133/396)) and axillary dissection (6%(25/396)). The presence of mammographic microcalcification, lobular carcinoma and grade 2 malignancy on core biopsy were independent risk factors for multiple operations on multivariate analysis. Women with mammographic DCIS >30 mm were 3.4 times more likely to undergo repeat surgery than those with smaller foci. The multidisciplinary team should pay particular attention to these factors when planning surgery. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical study of pElk-1 expression in human breast cancer: Association with breast cancer biologic profile and clinicopathologic features	Background: Recently an increased interest on Elk1 protein and its role in breast cancer evolution has been noted. This protein is an element of the Ets family of transcription factors and it has been involved in a number of important cell processes through the activation of different genes, in a number of normal tissues as well as in many malignancies.Methods: One hundred and seventy (n = 170) cases of operable breast cancer (invasive ductal, lobular and mixed type breast carcinomas) were randomly selected and investigated for the expression of pElk-1, Ki-67 and Cyclin D1 using immunohistochemistry. Our findings were correlated with tumors' clinicopathologic data and biologic profile.Results: Activated Elk1 is positively associated with ER (p-value: 0.018) and also shows a positive association of with Cyclin D1 (p-value: <0.001). No relationship was noted between pElk1 and Ki67 (p-value: 0.213). Luminal A and B Her-2 negative breast cancer subtypes were showing greater pElk-1 immunoreactivity compared to Her-2 and Basal breast cancer subtypes, and also a higher staining intensity. No association of the molecule with other clinicopathologic characteristics (tumor size, stage, histological type or lymph node metastases) or disease adverse events (local recurrence, metastasis or death) was evidenced.Conclusions: Our findings offer a new perspective for the role of pElk-1 in breast neoplasia suggesting a direct relation of this molecule to tumor biology and a putative target of personalized breast cancer therapies, although its prognostic/discriminant role is not supported. (C) 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Rationale of Excisional Biopsy After the Diagnosis of Benign Radial Scar on Core Biopsy A Single Institutional Outcome Analysis	Background: Radial scar (RS) is characterized by a fibroelastic core with entrapped ducts and lobules. Association with carcinoma is not uncommon. There is some dilemma as to the need for excisional biopsy or follow-up after RS diagnosis on core biopsy.Aim: To determine the necessity of excisional biopsy after the diagnosis of benign RS by core biopsy.Study Design: A total of 67 RS specimens associated with benign findings on core biopsy obtained between 2003 and 2008 were reviewed. They were grouped by their accompanying histopathologic features found upon subsequent surgical excision: benign, high-risk lesion (HRL), or carcinoma. Demographic features, radiologic findings, and needle gauge were compared within subgroups.Results: After surgical excision, 15 (22.4%) patients in the benign group were upgraded to a HRL, 4 (5.9%) patients were upgraded to carcinoma, and 48 (71.6%) remained benign. We found that malignancy is associated with RS more frequently if the patient is older and postmenopausal. Other variables such as symptoms at presentation, presence and type of abnormality on mammography (Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System score), breast density, size of biopsy needle used, and number of core samples retrieved did not help to predict the presence of carcinoma.Conclusions: The HRL and cancer upgrade rate of RS, requiring further intervention such as surgery or chemoprevention, is 28% in this study. However, we found that age and menopausal status may be taken into consideration when making the decision to follow up or excise the RS diagnosed on core biopsy. There is insufficient data to support the predictive value of any variables. Therefore, RS associated with benign findings on core biopsy should be excised.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Primary signet-ring cell carcinoma of the axilla	Primary cutaneous histiocytoid or signet-ring cell carcinoma represents an extremely rare adnexal neoplasm that most frequently presents on the eyelid but more rarely may present in the axilla. As this tumor can resemble metastatic carcinoma with signet-ring cells, especially lobular carcinoma of the breast, it can often present a diagnostic challenge. We present a case of cutaneous signet-ring cell carcinoma presenting in the axilla and outline the challenges of diagnosing this rare malignancy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histiocytoid breast carcinoma: a case report showing immunohistochemical profiles	Histiocytoid breast carcinoma (HBC) is a rare type of breast cancer with a controversial histogenesis. Here we describe a case report of a 65-year old woman with HBC. The patient presented with two masses in the right breast. Histopathologically, the tumors consisted of a diffuse infiltration of large tumor cells and histological components of carcinoma in situ and atypical lobular hyperplasia were also observed. The infiltration pattern was similar to that of invasive lobular carcinoma with targetoid and Indian file arrangements. The invasive histiocytoid cells had finely granular, eosinophilic to vesicular cytoplasm and nuclei with a bland uniform appearance, a single small eosinophilic nucleolus and finely granular chromatin. We compared the immunohistochemical profiles of 17 breast cancer markers between invasive carcinoma, carcinoma in situ, atypical lobular hyperplasia and normal breast epithelium. Although they all shared the same reactivity for many of the proteins, they exhibited differences in GCDFP-15, E-cadherin, P120, CEA, HER-2, ER and PR expression, and these are discussed. This is the first case study of two HBC masses occurring in one breast simultaneously. By analyzing and comparing their morphologic characteristics and spectrum of immunohistochemical expression, our study supports the view that HBC is a variant of lobular carcinoma and our findings may assist in future diagnoses of HBC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of selected proteins in breast cancer brain metastases	The aim of the study was to assess the immunohistochemical (IHC) profiles of SRC3, Pax2, ER, PgR, Her2, EGFR, CK5/6, and Ki67 proteins in breast-cancer brain metastasis. The study utilized tumor samples from 30 metastatic patients and calculated correlations between all IHC variables. In fourteen cases, primary breast cancers paired with secondary deposits were analyzed. We evaluated the association between IHC status in the primary and secondary deposits, grade, and histotype of the tumors. The examination of the metastatic deposits in all 30 patients resulted in positive detection in the following cases: SRC3 in 20 cases (66.6%), Pax2 in 22 (73.3%), ER in 22 (73.3%), PgR in 25 (83.3%), Her2 in 10 (33.3%), EGFR in 12 (40%), CK5/6 in 7 (23.3%), and Ki67 in 23 (76.6%). Grade 2 was found in 13.3% of all patients, and grade 3 in 86.7%. SRC3 and Pax2 were positive in both G2 and G3. Invasive lobular carcinoma and invasive ductal carcinoma were diagnosed in 23.3% and 76.7% of cases, respectively. There were no differences between the IHC expression of the studied proteins in either grading or histotype of the tumors. In the IHC profiles, which included SRC3, Pax2, ER, PgR, Her2, CK5/6, Ki67, and EGFR, we found no statistically significant differences between the primary cancer and the brain metastasis. In our study of metastatic breast carcinoma deposits, there was no correlation between SRC3, Pax2 status and histotype, and tumor grade. The IHC status of the paired primary and metastatic deposits did not differ in a statistically significant manner.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus	Objective: Evidence points to a decreased breast cancer risk in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). We analyzed data from a large multisite SLE cohort, linked to cancer registries. Methods: Information on age, SLE duration, cancer date, and histology was available. We analyzed information on histological type and performed multivariate logistic regression analyses of histological types according to age, SLE duration, and calendar year. Results: We studied 180 breast cancers in the SLE cohort. Of the 155 cases with histology information, 11 were referred to simply as 'carcinoma not otherwise specified'. In the remaining 144 breast cancers, the most common histological type was ductal carcinoma (n = 95; 66%) followed by lobular adenocarcinoma (n = 11; 8%), 15 cancers were of mixed histology, and the remaining ones were special types. In our regression analyses, the independent risk factors for lobular versus ductal carcinoma was age [odds ratio (OR) 1.07, 95% confidence interval (Cl) 1.01-1.14] and for the 'special' subtypes it was age (OR 1.06, 95% Cl 1.01-1.10) and SLE duration (OR 1.05, 95% CI 1.00-1.11). Conclusions: Generally, up to 80% of breast cancers are ductal carcinomas. Though our results are not definitive, in the breast cancers that occur in SLE, there may be a slight decrease in the ductal histological type. In our analyses, age and SLE duration were independent predictors of histological status. Copyright (C) 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular Biology of Cadherins	This 537-page book in English titled "Progress in Molecular Biology and Translational Science-The Molecular Biology of Cadherins" is volume 116 in its series. This book contains 19 individually-authored chapters divided among four sections. Each chapter is extensively referenced. Topics covered include stability and dynamics of cell-cell junctions, regulation of Rho GTPase signaling and cadherin junctions, new insights into the evolution of metazoan cadherins and catenins, structure, function, and regulation of desmosomes and role of VE-cadherin in vascular morphogenesis and permeability control. Also discussed are clustered protocadherins and neuronal diversity, delta-protocadherins in health and disease, atypical cadherins and planar cell polarity in vertebrates, cadherins and their partners in the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans, N-cadherin-mediated adhesion and signaling from development to disease, cadherin dynamics during neural crest cell ontogeny, cadherins and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, E-cadherin alterations in hereditary disorders with emphasis on hereditary diffuse gastric cancer, cadherin defects in inherited human diseases and cadherin-associated proteins. This book includes a list of the contributors and their respective institutions. This book will be of interest to all those working or studying in the fields of molecular biology and molecular genetics.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemistry Applied to the Differential Diagnosis Between Ductal and Lobular Carcinoma of the Breast	The distinction between classic lobular and ductal carcinoma, both in situ and invasive, has important therapeutic and management implications. Most ductal and lobular carcinomas are distinguished readily on hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections because of distinct histomorphologic features. In cases with ambiguous morphologic features, however, categorization in one or another type can be a challenge. Several immunohistochemical markers, including epithelial cadherin, p120, beta-catenin, and low-molecular-weight and high-molecular-weight cytokeratins among others, have been introduced to help better discriminate between lobular neoplasia and ductal carcinoma. In this critical review of the literature, we comment about the usefulness and the limitations of these markers to improve the accuracy in the differential diagnosis of breast pathology.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Estrogen switches pure mucinous breast cancer to invasive lobular carcinoma with mucinous features	Mucinous breast cancer (MBC) is mainly a disease of postmenopausal women. Pure MBC is rare and augurs a good prognosis. In contrast, MBC mixed with other histological subtypes of invasive disease loses the more favorable prognosis. Because of the relative rarity of pure MBC, little is known about its cell and tumor biology and relationship to invasive disease of other subtypes. We have now developed a human breast cancer cell line called BCK4, in which we can control the behavior of MBC. BCK4 cells were derived from a patient whose poorly differentiated primary tumor was treated with chemotherapy, radiation and tamoxifen. Malignant cells from a recurrent pleural effusion were xenografted in mammary glands of a nude mouse. Cells from the solid tumor xenograft were propagated in culture to generate the BCK4 cell line. Multiple marker and chromosome analyses demonstrate that BCK4 cells are human, near diploid and luminal, expressing functional estrogen, androgen, and progesterone receptors. When xenografted back into immunocompromised cycling mice, BCK4 cells grow into small pure MBC. However, if mice are supplemented with continuous estradiol, tumors switch to invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) with mucinous features (mixed MBC), and growth is markedly accelerated. Tamoxifen prevents the expansion of this more invasive component. The unexpected ability of estrogens to convert pure MBC into mixed MBC with ILC may explain the rarity of the pure disease in premenopausal women. These studies show that MBC can be derived from lobular precursors and that BCK4 cells are new, unique models to study the phenotypic plasticity, hormonal regulation, optimal therapeutic interventions, and metastatic patterns of MBC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Bone morphogenetic protein 4 expression in multiple normal and tumor tissues reveals its importance beyond development	Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) are extracellular signaling molecules that belong to the transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta) superfamily and are known to regulate cell proliferation, differentiation and motility, especially during development. BMP4 has an indispensable role in vertebrate development while limited information on BMP4 expression and function exists in adult tissues. Nevertheless, its contribution to cancer development and progression has gained increasing interest in recent years. Functional studies, especially in breast cancer, have implicated BMP4 both in inhibition of cell proliferation and in promotion of cell migration and invasion. To gain an insight into the function of BMP4 in normal and cancer tissues, BMP4 protein expression levels were analyzed by immunohistochemistry in 34 different normal organs/tissues, 34 different tumor types and finally in 486 breast cancer samples where possible associations between BMP4 and clinicopathological parameters were statistically evaluated. In over 20% of normal and malignant tissues, BMP4 was expressed at high level. Strong expression was observed particularly in some normal epithelial cells, such as bladder and stomach, and in squamous cell carcinomas. In breast cancer, strong BMP4 expression was detected in 25% of patients, and was associated with low proliferation index and increased frequency of tumor recurrence. Taken together, BMP4 is expressed in a subset of normal adult tissues and is likely to contribute to tissue homeostasis. However, in tumors, BMP4 expression levels vary considerably, implying diverse roles in different tumor types. This role is biphasic in breast cancer as BMP4 expression is linked to reduced proliferation and increased recurrence, thus corroborating our previous in-vitro functional data. Modern Pathology (2013) 26, 10-21; doi:10.1038/modpathol.2012.128; published online 17 August 2012	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Diagnostic Utility of the Minimal Carcinoma Triple Stain in Breast Carcinomas	Pathologists are expected to accurately diagnose increasingly smaller breast carcinomas. Correct classification (ie, lobular vs ductal or in situ vs invasive) directly affects subsequent management, especially when the focus is near a surgical margin or present in a needle core biopsy and is further challenging if the lesion is morphologically ambiguous. We assessed the diagnostic utility of a multiplex, trichromogen immunostain of 3 commonly employed antibodies (CK7, p63, and E-cadherin) developed in our laboratory to evaluate these small lesions. Of the 147 specimens containing minimal (defined as <= 3 mm in size) invasive carcinoma, 81 also contained in situ carcinoma. In each case, the Minimal Carcinoma Triple Stain was prepared with a parallel H&E-stained slide. Observations of staining characteristics in the focus of interest were recorded. The Minimal Carcinoma Triple Stain was diagnostically useful in all but 1 case. In a case of invasive lobular carcinoma in an excisional biopsy, the Minimal Carcinoma Triple Stain stained only the surrounding breast tissue (appropriately) and not the focus of interest. Also, a subset of 29 of 81 excisional biopsies had minimal invasive carcinoma located 2 mm or less from the inked surgical margin, in which in all cases the Minimal Carcinoma Triple Stain was fully interpretable despite morphologic distortion due to concomitant cautery artifact and tissue disruption in some cases. The Minimal Carcinoma Triple Stain offers an accurate and tissue-conserving method to diagnose small, morphologically problematic foci of breast carcinoma while ideally leaving more tissue for additional adjunctive studies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Synchronous Metastasis From Lobular Carcinoma and Primary Carcinoma of the Endometrium in a Patient After Tamoxifen Therapy	Patients treated with tamoxifen often experience vaginal bleeding, generally because of benign endometrial lesions or, less often, because of endometrial carcinoma. A rare cause of vaginal bleeding in these patients is breast carcinoma metastasis in an endometrial polyp. We describe a 67-yr-old patient with metastasis of lobular breast carcinoma in an endometrial polyp and papillary serous endometrial carcinoma, both diagnosed simultaneously in a uterine curettage. The coexistence of the 2 cancers was confirmed by pathologic study of the hysterectomy specimen. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of the synchronous presence of the 2 neoplastic diseases. Endometrial biopsies performed for endometrial disorders in patients who have breast cancer and have received tamoxifen should be studied carefully to avoid underdiagnosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Unilateral multicentric cancer of the breast containing two different histopathological types: Case report	Unilateral multicentric cancer of the breast containing a tumor with a specific histopathological type is comparatively rare. We, herein, report a case of an unilateral multicentric cancer of the breast containing two separate tumors diagnosed as a papillo-tubular carcinoma and an invasive lobular carcinoma. In addition to the difference in histological type, these two tumors also had different patterns of expression of hormonal receptors reflecting the cellular aggressiveness. Therfore, these tumors may be formed through multicentric tumorigenesis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Denosumab versus placebo as adjuvant treatment for women with early-stage breast cancer at high risk of disease recurrence (D-CARE): An international, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 3 clinical trial		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	National Trends and Indications for Nipple-Sparing Mastectomy: An Analysis Using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Database		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Overall survival and the prognostic factors among women with infiltrating lobular carcinoma of the breast in National Cancer Institute of Brazil		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Intraoperatively-palpable "non-sentinel" nodes: should they be removed?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical-pathological features and outcomes of Invasive lobular (ILC) vs Invasive ductal (IDC) breast cancer (BC): a mono-institutional series.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinico-pathological features of low-grade triple negative early breast cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Ductolobular breast carcinoma and the role of preoperative magnetic resonance imaging		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neutralizing antibody to human GP88 (progranulin) restores sensitivity to tamoxifen and inhibits breast tumor growth in mouse xenografts		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Correlation between expression of the prognostic marker Progranulin (GP88) with Oncotype Dx Recurrence Score in estrogen receptor positive breast tumors		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Retrospective database review of outcomes in invasive lobular carcinoma and invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular Breast Imaging: the sensitivity of breast-specific gamma imaging (BSGI) as a diagnostic adjunct to mammography and ultrasound in a triple assessment protocol		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	High YKL-40 Serum Concentration Is Correlated with Prognosis of Chinese Patients with Breast Cancer	This study aimed to investigate the association between serum YKL-40 and prognosis of breast cancer in a Chinese population. Expression of YKL-40 of 120 Chinese patients with breast cancer and 30 controls (benign breast lesions) was measured in tumor tissue by immunohistochemistry and in serum by ELISA. Differences in YKL-40 positivity grouped by specific patients' characteristics were compared using Pearson Chi-square test for rates of intratumoral staining, one-way ANOVA with a Bonferroni post-hoc comparison, or two-sample t-test for mean YKL-40 serum concentrations. Factors associated with overall survival were identified by univariate and multivariate cox-regression analyses. YKL-40 was elevated in approximately 75% of Chinese patients with breast cancer. A significantly higher percentage of patients with YKL-40 positive tumors had larger tumor size, higher TNM stage, and/or lymph node metastasis. Significantly higher mean YKL-40 serum concentrations were observed in patient subgroups with invasive lobular carcinoma (P < 0.0167), higher TNM stage (P < 0.001), and positive lymph node metastasis (P < 0.001). The estimated mean survival time of patients with YKL-40 positive tumors was significantly shorter than for patients with YKL-40 negative tumors (55.13 months vs 65.78 months, P=0.017). Multivariable Cox-regression analysis identified a significant association of overall survival time with YKL-40 serum concentration. Patients with YKL-40 positive tumors had significantly shorter disease free survival times than those with YKL-40 negative tumors. We propose that the potential utility of YKL-40 intratumoral staining or serum concentration as a biomarker for breast cancer is greatest within 5 years of diagnosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Contralateral Prophylactic Mastectomy: Clinical and Pathological Features From a Prospective Database	Introduction: In keeping with recently documented national trends, a significant and increasing number of patients will have chosen contralateral prophylactic mastectomy (CPM) based on personal preference, without traditional clinical or pathological indication. Methods: Women who underwent CPM at the University of Louisville from 2003 to 2009 were selected for this study. Descriptive factors were evaluated such as age, race, family history of breast cancer, laterality, hormone receptor status, stage, grade and histology of the index breast lesion. Statistical analysis was used to compute predictive factors for occult contralateral pathology. Results: A total of 107 patients underwent CPM and had adequate medical information to be included in this study. The median age was 48 years, with 88% being white and 12% being African American. Seventy-six percent of the index breast cancers were infiltrating ductal carcinoma and 12% were infiltrating lobular carcinoma. Five "significant" occult pathologies were found in the prophylactically removed breast. Two of the lesions were ductal carcinoma in situ, 2 were lobular carcinoma in situ and 1 was an invasive mucinous carcinoma. On bivariate analysis, there were no factors identified predictive for occult contralateral pathology. Conclusions: In line with previously reported data, we noted that fewer than 5% of patients who underwent CPM had pathology in the contralateral breast. We were unable to correlate any clinical or pathological characteristics in women who presented with contralateral breast cancer. This study raises serious questions regarding the clinical utility of CPM in detecting synchronous clinically and radiographically occult contralateral primaries.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HIF-1 alpha and NOTCH signaling in ductal and lobular carcinomas of the breast	NOTCH signaling is involved in every step of metazoan development and maintenance of adult tissue homeostasis. It is frequently deregulated by mutations and overexpression in different cancer types including solid tumors such as breast cancer. Another common feature of solid tumors is hypoxia, which occurs due to defective or insufficient vascularization. Hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) are key regulators of the homeostatic response to low oxygen levels. HIF-1 alpha is overexpressed in many solid tumors, including breast cancer. Hypoxia-induced stabilization of HIF transcription factors has been shown to lead to NOTCH activation in vitro in different contexts and tissues, causing differentiation arrest and induction of proliferation and migration.Since the link between HIF-1 alpha and NOTCH signalling has hardly been studied, we set out to closely investigate associations between the expression of HIF-1 alpha and NOTCH pathway members in primary and metastatic human breast cancer specimens and their prognostic value.Co-expression of NOTCH1 intracellular domain (N1ICD) and HIF-1 alpha was associated with a high grade and a high proliferation rate in invasive breast cancer. HIF-1 alpha expression was low in classic, but high in pleomorphic lobular cancers, which also frequently showed stromal HIF-1 alpha expression. NOTCH1 pathway activation was prognostically unfavorable.In breast cancer, NOTCH pathway activation appears to be associated with a poor prognosis, but NOTCH and HIF signaling do not seem to be functionally associated.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of the molecular chaperone alpha B-crystallin in infiltrating ductal breast carcinomas and the significance thereof: an immunohistochemical and proteomics-based strategy	This study aims to evaluate alpha B-crystallin expression in infiltrating ductal breast carcinomas (IDCAs), as well as, its prognostic significance. Using a two-dimensional electrophoresis matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionisation-time of flight mass spectrometry investigation coupled to an immunohistochemical approach, we have assessed the expression of alpha B-crystallin in IDCAs, as well as, in other types of breast tumors (invasive lobular carcinomas, medullary carcinomas, and in situ ductal carcinomas). Correlation between alpha B-crystallin expression and clinicopathological parameters of breast cancer has also been investigated. Proteomic analyses revealed an increased expression of alpha B-crystallin in IDCA tumors compared to adjacent nontumor tissues. Overexpression of this molecular chaperone was further confirmed in 51 tumor specimens. Statistical analyses revealed, however, no significant correlations between alpha B-crystallin expression and clinicopathological parameters of the disease (tumor stage, patient age, hormone receptors, SBR grade, and lymph node metastases). This study demonstrates the upregulation of alpha B-crystallin in IDCA tissues which may highlight its possible involvement in breast cancer development. Our findings do not, however, support the involvement of this molecular chaperone in the progression of this disease.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Biphasic Papillary and Lobular Breast Carcinoma With PIK3CA and IDH1 Mutations	Morphologic "special types" of breast carcinomas have been recognized for many years, and their molecular and genetic properties have not been specifically studied until recently. Lobular carcinoma lacks functional E-cadherin expression but shares molecular similarities with low-grade invasive ductal carcinomas. Papillary carcinoma is relatively rare, and molecular features are just being elucidated. We report a case of concurrent invasive lobular and papillary carcinoma, the latter with extensive nodal involvement. Multiplex screening for activating point mutations identified different point mutations in the distinct morphologic components: lobular PIK3CA H1047R, papillary; PIK3CA Q546P, and IDH1 R132H. These molecular data favor coincidental "collision tumors" over clonal evolution. The IDH1 R132H point mutation is common in gliomas and acute myelogenous leukemia, but this has not been previously reported in breast carcinoma. The characterization of activating point mutations in morphologic special types of breast carcinoma may suggest avenues amenable to targeted therapy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Prospective Pathologic Study to Define the Clinical Target Volume for Partial Breast Radiation Therapy in Women With Early Breast Cancer	Purpose: To determine an appropriate clinical target volume for partial breast radiation therapy (PBRT) based on the spatial distribution of residual invasive and in situ carcinoma after wide local excision (WLE) for early breast cancer or ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS).Methods and Materials: We performed a prospective pathologic study of women potentially eligible for PBRT who had re-excision and/or completion mastectomy after WLE for early breast cancer or DCIS. A pathologic assessment protocol was used to determine the maximum radial extension (MRE) of residual carcinoma from the margin of the initial surgical cavity. Women were stratified by the closest initial radial margin width: negative (>1 mm), close (>0 mm and <= 1 mm), or involved.Results: The study population was composed of 133 women with a median age of 59 years (range, 27-82 years) and the following stage groups: 0 (13.5%), I (40.6%), II (38.3%), and III (7.5%). The histologic subtypes of the primary tumor were invasive ductal carcinoma (74.4%), invasive lobular carcinoma (12.0%), and DCIS alone (13.5%). Residual carcinoma was present in the re-excision and completion mastectomy specimens in 55.4%, 14.3%, and 7.2% of women with an involved, close, and negative margin, respectively. In the 77 women with a noninvolved radial margin, the MRE of residual disease, if present, was <= 10 mm in 97.4% (95% confidence interval 91.6-99.5) of cases. Larger MRE measurements were significantly associated with an involved margin (P<.001), tumor size >30 mm (P=.03), premenopausal status (P=.03), and negative progesterone receptor status (P=.05).Conclusions: A clinical target volume margin of 10 mm would encompass microscopic residual disease in >90% of women potentially eligible for PBRT after WLE with noninvolved resection margins. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Can Breast MRI Select Patients for Treatment With Preoperative APBI?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Local Regional Recurrence Among Patients With Pleomorphic Lobular Carcinoma In Situ: Is There a Role for Radiation Therapy?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Preoperative Accelerated Partial Breast Radiation Is Associated With Decreased Cd8+Cells in Patients With Early Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Intraoperative Radiation Therapy With Low Energy Photons (INTRABEAM) as Boost Irradiation: Results in 546 Patients Treated at 2 Community Breast Cancer Centers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Genetic up-regulation and overexpression of PLEKHA7 differentiates invasive lobular carcinomas from invasive ductal carcinomas	Molecular differentiation between invasive lobular carcinomas (ILCs) and invasive ductal carcinomas (IDCs) of the breast has not been well defined. We investigated gene expression differences between ILCs and IDCs and their correlation with variations in invasiveness and tumor growth. Total RNA was isolated from 30 frozen tumor samples: 10 from ILCs and 20 from IDCs. Gene expression was investigated using the Affymetrix GeneChip Human Gene 1.0 ST Array (Affymetrix, Santa Clara, CA). Data and validation were performed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Gene expression differences between ILCs and IDCs were found in 140 genes. Overall, ILCs showed up-regulation of genes related with cell migration, lipid and fatty acid metabolism, and some transcription factors and showed down-regulation of cell adhesion, actin cytoskeleton, cell proliferation, and energetic metabolism of the tumor cells. Our reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction results showed that PLEKHA and TMSB10 expression discriminated ILCs from luminal A IDCs, whereas PLEKHA7, TMSB10, PRDX4, and SERPINB5 discriminated ILCs from luminal B IDCs. At the protein level, Plekha7 was overexpressed in ILCs but not in normal tissue or low-grade IDCs. Moreover, Plekha7 overexpression had an inverse relation with E-cadherin expression. The gene expression profile in ILCs and IDCs differs in several signaling pathways. Our findings suggest that overexpression of PLEKHA 7 is common in ILCs and could be a molecular marker to differentiate ILCs from IDCs. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Automated image analysis of cyclin D1 protein expression in invasive lobular breast carcinoma provides independent prognostic information	The emergence of automated image analysis algorithms has aided the enumeration, quantification, and immunohistochemical analyses of tumor cells in both whole section and tissue microarray samples. To date, the focus of such algorithms in the breast cancer setting has been on traditional markers in the common invasive ductal carcinoma subtype. Here, we aimed to optimize and validate an automated analysis of the cell cycle regulator cyclin D1 in a large collection of invasive lobular carcinoma and relate its expression to clinicopathologic data. The image analysis algorithm was trained to optimally match manual scoring of cyclin D1 protein expression in a subset of invasive lobular carcinoma tissue microarray cores. The algorithm was capable of distinguishing cyclin D1 positive cells and illustrated high correlation with traditional manual scoring (kappa = 0.63). It was then applied to our entire cohort of 483 patients, with subsequent statistical comparisons to clinical data. We found no correlation between cyclin D1 expression and tumor size, grade, and lymph node status. However, overexpression of the protein was associated with reduced recunrrence-free survival (P = .029), as was positive nodal status (P < .001) in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma. Finally, high cyclin D1 expression was associated with increased hazard ratio in multivariate analysis (hazard ratio, 1.75; 95% confidence interval, 1.05-2.89). In conclusion, we describe an image analysis algorithm capable of reliably analyzing cyclin D1 staining in invasive lobular carcinoma and have linked overexpression of the protein to increased recurrence risk. Our findings support the use of cyclin D1 as a clinically informative biomarker for invasive lobular breast cancer. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular histology and response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in invasive breast cancer	Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) has been reported to be less responsive to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) than invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC). We sought to determine whether ILC histology indeed predicts poor response to NAC by analyzing tumor characteristics such as protein expression, gene expression, and imaging features, and by comparing NAC response rates to those seen in IDC after adjustment for these factors. We combined datasets from two large prospective NAC trials, including in total 676 patients, of which 75 were of lobular histology. Eligible patients had tumors a parts per thousand yen3 cm in diameter or pathologic documentation of positive nodes, and underwent serial biopsies, expression microarray analysis, and MRI imaging. We compared pathologic complete response (pCR) rates and breast conservation surgery (BCS) rates between ILC and IDC, adjusted for clinicopathologic factors. On univariate analysis, ILCs were significantly less likely to have a pCR after NAC than IDCs (11 vs. 25 %, p = 0.01). However, the known differences in tumor characteristics between the two histologic types, including hormone receptor (HR) status, HER2 status, histological grade, and p53 expression, accounted for this difference with the lowest pCR rates among HR+/HER2- tumors in both ILC and IDC (7 and 5 %, respectively). ILC which were HR- and/or HER2+ had a pCR rate of 25 %. Expression subtyping, particularly the NKI 70-gene signature, was correlated with pCR, although the small numbers of ILC in each group precluded significant associations. BCS rate did not differ between IDC and ILC after adjusting for molecular characteristics. We conclude that ILC represents a heterogeneous group of tumors which are less responsive to NAC than IDC. However, this difference is explained by differences in molecular characteristics, particularly HR and HER2, and independent of lobular histology.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Differential loss of heterozygosity profile on chromosome 3p in ductal and lobular breast carcinomas	The 2 main histologic types of infiltrating breast cancer, invasive lobular and invasive ductal carcinoma, are morphologically and clinically distinct. Studies revealed that different patterns of gene expression and loss of heterozygosity can also distinguish these 2 subtypes. A whole-genome study using single nucleotide polymorphism array found a significantly higher frequency of loss of heterozygosity on 3p in invasive ductal carcinoma when compared with invasive lobular carcinoma. In this study, we performed a loss of heterozygosity analysis of the 3p chromosome region in ductal and lobular breast tumors. Seven microsatellite markers were evaluated in a series of 136 sporadic breast cancer cases (118 invasive ductal carcinoma and 18 invasive lobular carcinoma) and correlated with clinical-histopathologic parameters from the patients. A significantly higher frequency of loss of heterozygosity was observed in invasive ductal carcinoma (65.3%) when compared with invasive lobular carcinoma (38.9%). When the markers were analyzed separately, loss of heterozygosity at 3 of them, D351307 in 3p26.3, D3SI286 in 3p24.3, and D3SI300 in 3p14.2, were significantly more frequent in ductal than in lobular tumors. D3SI307 marker showed the highest frequency of loss of heterozygosity in invasive ductal carcinoma (46.2%), and associations between loss of this marker and loss of estrogen and progesterone receptors were found in these samples. Our results confirm the observations that invasive ductal carcinoma has a higher frequency of loss of heterozygosity events across the 3p region than invasive lobular carcinoma and show that specific losses on 3p26.3, 3p24.3, and 3p14.2 regions are more frequent in ductal than in lobular tumors. We discuss our data in relation to the known tumor suppressor genes that are mapped at the 3p loci investigated and their present relevant roles in breast cancer. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Epithelial Columnar breast lesions: Histopathology and molecular markers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Flat epithelial atypia with and without atypical ductal hyperplasia: to re-excise or not. Results of a 5-year prospective study	Flat epithelial atypia (FEA) of the breast have a tendency to calcify and, as such, are becoming increasingly detected by mammography. There is no consensus yet on whether to excise these lesions or not after diagnosis on core needle biopsies (CNB). We reviewed 3,948 cases of breast CNB between June 2004 and June 2009 correlating histomorphologic, radiological, and clinical features. There were 3.7 % (145/3,948) pure FEA and 1.5 % (58/3,948) concomitant FEA and atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH). In the pure FEA population, 46.2 % (67/145) had microcalcifications on mammography with 65.5 % (95/145) of patients undergoing subsequent excisional biopsies with the following findings: benign 20 % (19/95), ADH 37.9 % (36/95), ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) 1.1 % (1/95), and DCIS and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) 2.1 % (2/95). In the concomitant FEA and ADH group, 86.2 % (50/58) patients had microcalcifications on radiograph with 74.1 % (43/58) of patients undergoing subsequent excisions with: benign 23.3 % (10/43), DCIS 9.3 % (4/43), DCIS and IDC 4.7 % (2/43), DCIS + lobular carcinoma in situ + invasive lobular carcinoma 2.3 % (1/43), and tubular carcinoma 2.3 % (1/43). The incidence of carcinoma in the FEA + ADH group is 18.6 % (8/43) and 3.2 % (3/95) for the pure FEA group. This difference is statistically significant (p = 0.0016). The relative risk of carcinoma in the ADH + FEA group versus the pure FEA group is 6.4773, with 95 % CI of 1.8432 and 22.76 24. Five-year mean follow-up in the unexcised pure FEA did not show any malignancies. These findings suggest that pure FEA has a very low association with carcinoma, and these patients may benefit from close clinical and mammographic follow-up while the combined pure FEA and ADH cases may be re-excised.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Rectal Metastasis of a Primary Gastroesophageal Adenocarcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinoma of the Breast with Metastasis to the Colon		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Colonic Conundrum: Metastatic Infiltrating Lobular Carcinoma of the Breast to the Colon and Ovary		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histopathological patterns of breast cancer - experience in a Teaching Hospital		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The accuracy, sensitivity and specificity of intraoperative frozen diagnosis of sentinel lymph nodes in breast cancer: a retrospective review of 354 cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histological and epidemiological characteristics of breast cancers in women in Cote d'Ivoire		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The clinico-pathological characteristics of Her2 positive breast carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Kikuchi's lymphadenitis developing in lymph nodes draining breast carcinoma; a study of three cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic factors in invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of cytokeratin-19 in breast carcinoma and its implication in the study of lymph node by OSNA method: An analysis of 345 cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast granulocytic sarcoma with aleukemic presentation: A case report		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma predicts micrometastasis in breast cancer	Background: Invasive lobular carcinomas (ILCs) are almost always estrogen receptor (ER) positive. Most delayed breast cancer recurrences occur in ER-positive patients. Disseminated tumor cells (DTCs) and circulating tumor cells (CTCs) have been implicated in recurrence. The purpose of this study was to determine whether DTCs and CTCs are associated with ILCs in stage I-III breast cancer.Materials and methods: Clinical stage I-III breast cancer patients consented to participate in an institutional review board-approved study involving collection of bone marrow and blood at surgery for primary breast cancer. We assessed DTCs by anti-CK antibody cocktail after cytospin. We detected CTCs using Cell Search, and defined them as nucleated cells lacking CD45 but expressing cytokeratin. One or more cells per 5 mL bone marrow or 7.5 mL blood was considered positive. We performed statistical analyses using chi-square and Fisher's exact tests.Results: We prospectively enrolled 422 patients, 64 with ILC and 358 with invasive ductal carcinoma. Estrogen receptor positivity was higher in ILCs (92.2% versus 66.2%) {P = .001}. We identified DTCs to be 43.4% with ILC compared with 28.9% with IDC {P = 0.03}. The CTC rates were similar. Either DTCs or CTCs were identified in 75.6% with ILC, compared with 51.7% with invasive ductal carcinoma {P = .002}. We observed no correlation between the presence of DTCs and CTCs in ILC patients and tumor size, grade, hormone receptor status, stage, lymph node status, or administration of NACT.Conclusions: Invasive lobular carcinomas independently predicted micrometastatic disease. Because most late recurrences are ER positive, this raises the question of whether DTCs and CTCs are indeed responsible for late breast cancer recurrence. Published by Elsevier Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Therapeutic potential of stem cells expressing suicide genes that selectively target human breast cancer cells: Evidence that they exert tumoricidal effects via tumor tropism (Review)	Breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer in women worldwide and is classified into ductal and lobular carcinoma. Breast cancer as well as lobular carcinoma is associated with various risk factors such as gender, age, female hormone exposure, ethnicity, family history and genetic risk factor-associated genes. Genes associated with a high risk of developing breast cancer include BRCA1, BRCA2, p53, PTEN, CHEK2 and ATM. Surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy and hormone therapy are used to treat breast cancer but these therapies, except for surgery, have many side-effects such as alopecia, anesthesia, diarrhea and arthralgia. Gene-directed enzyme/prodrug therapy (GEPT) or suicide gene therapy, may improve the therapeutic efficacy of conventional cancer radiotherapy and chemotherapy without side-effects. GEPT most often involves the use of a viral vector to deliver a gene not found in mammalian cells and that produces enzymes which can convert a relatively non-toxic prodrug into a toxic agent. Examples of these systems include cytosine deaminase/5-fluorocytosine (CD/5-FC), carboxyl esterase/irinotecan (CE/CPT-11), and thymidine kinase/ganciclovir (TK/GCV). Recently, therapies based on genetically engineered stem cells (GESTECs) using a GEPT system have received a great deal of attention for their clinical and therapeutic potential to treat breast cancer. In this review, we discuss the potential of GESTECs via tumor tropism effects and therapeutic efficacy against several different types of cancer cells. GESTECs represent a useful tool for treating breast cancer without inducing injuries associated with conventional therapeutic modalities.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive breast carcinomas in Ghana: high frequency of high grade, basal-like histology and high EZH2 expression	Breast cancer in African-American women has a worse outcome than in Caucasian women. The ancestors of most African-American women come from West Africa, including Ghana. The Polycomb group protein EZH2 is a marker of poor outcome in breast cancers from Caucasian women. The histopathological features and biomarker expression of African breast cancers remain obscure. Here, we investigated a cohort of Ghanaian breast cancers to better define the prevalent tumor types and to test if EZH2 protein may identify aggressive tumors. A group of 169 breast tissues (100 invasive carcinomas and 69 benign) from women treated at Komfo Anoyke Teaching Hospital between 2006 and 2011 were histologically classified and investigated for EZH2 expression. EZH2 nuclear expression we defined as high or low following previously published criteria. Of the 100 invasive carcinomas, 89 % were ductal, 2 % were lobular, and 9 % were metaplastic. Basal-like pathological features were present in 30 % of the tumors. Of the invasive carcinomas, 7 % were grade 1, 41 % grade 2, and 52 % grade 3. EZH2 protein was overexpressed in invasive carcinomas compared to benign breast (p < 0.0001). In invasive carcinomas nuclear EZH2 overexpression was significantly associated with basal-like subtype (p = 0.03) and high histologic grade (p < 0.05). Cytoplasmic EZH2, which has not been previously reported, was present in 16 % of invasive carcinomas and it was associated with triple negative status (p = 0.02). Our results provide the first comprehensive histopathological study of this patient population and uncover the association of EZH2 with high grade and basal-like tumors. We provide the basis for further detailed investigations on this cohort to advance diagnosis and treatment of African and African-American women.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Tumor-associated Antigens and Their Cognate Autoantibodies as Potential Diagnostic Tool for Breast Cancer Detection		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of TopBP1 in hereditary breast cancer	TopBP1 protein displays structural as well as functional similarities to BRCA1 and is involved in DNA replication, DNA damage checkpoint response and transcriptional regulation. Aberrant expression of TopBP1 may lead to genomic instability and can have pathological consequences. In this study we aimed to investigate expression of TopBP1 gene at mRNA and protein level in hereditary breast cancer. Real-time quantitative PCR was performed in 127 breast cancer samples. Expression of TopBP1 mRNA in lobular carcinoma was significantly lower compared with ductal carcinoma (p < 0.05). The level of TopBP1 mRNA appeared to be lower in poorly differentiated (III grade) hereditary breast cancer in comparison with moderately (II grade) and well-differentiated cancer (I grade) (p < 0.05 and p < 0.001 respectively). We analyzed TopBP1 protein expression using immunohistochemistry and Western blot techniques. Expression of TopBP1 protein was found to be significantly increased in poorly differentiated breast cancer (III grade) (p < 0.05). The percentage of samples with cytoplasmic apart from nuclear staining increased with increasing histological grade. There was no significant association between level and intracellular localization of TopBP1 protein in hereditary breast cancer and other clinicopathological parameters such as estrogen and progesterone receptors status, appearance of metastasis in the axillary lymph nodes and type of cancer. Our data suggest that decreased level of TopBP1 mRNA and increased level of TopBP1 protein might be associated with progression of hereditary breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MYOFIBROBLASTOMA: A POTENTIAL PITFALL IN CORE NEEDLE BIOPSY OF BREAST LESIONS	Myofibroblastoma (MFB) is a benign neoplasm arising most frequently in the adult breast, but it may occur in any other tissue with the exception of the central nervous system. Adequate treatment of this neoplasm consists of local excision. MFB shows characteristic histological features and a clear immunohistochemical profile and usually does not cause any diagnostic difficulties [1-4]. A rare variant of MFB such as the epithelioid subtype with sclerotic stroma, however, can resemble lobular carcinoma in routinely stained histological sections.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The differences in the histological types of breast cancer and the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy: The relationship between the outcome and the clinicopathological characteristics	Although effective regimens have been established for invasive ductal carcinoma-not otherwise specified (IDC), the efficacy and prognosis of other minor types of breast cancer are unknown because of their rareness. The clinicopathological features and prognosis of other minor types concerning the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) were evaluated in this study.A total of 562 patients were classified according to the Japanese and the World Health Organization (WHO) classifications, and the number of IDC and other special types (SP) was 500 and 62. The SP patients had a significantly poorer clinicopathological response to NAC and less breast-conservative therapy than those with IDC. According to the WHO classification, mucinous carcinoma, metaplastic carcinomas and apocrine carcinoma also responded poorly, and patients with metaplastic carcinomas and invasive lobular carcinoma had a significantly poorer prognosis. Despite the poor response to chemotherapy, patients with mucinous carcinoma and apocrine carcinoma had a good prognosis.The response to NAC and the prognosis vary for each histological type. For some types, the prognosis was not related to the clinicopathological response to NAC.Background: In the treatment of breast cancer, neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) has become the standard treatment modality for downstaging purposes. Although effective regimens have been established for the treatment of invasive ductal carcinoma-not otherwise specified (IDC), the data about the efficacy and prognosis for patients with other minor types of breast cancer are insufficient because of the rareness of these tumors. Defining the relationship between each histological type and the clinicopathological response to NAC is essential to optimizing individualized treatment.Methods: We retrospectively evaluated the clinicopathological features and classification of the histological types based on the Japanese and the World Health Organization (WHO) classifications before and after NAC in 562 patients with primary breast cancer who underwent curative treatment after NAC between 1998 and 2008. The prognosis was estimated for each histological type.Results: Of the 562 patients, the number of cases of IDC and other special types (SP) was 500 and 62. In the SP group, the clinicopathological response to NAC was significantly poorer, and the patients underwent breast-conservative therapy less frequently than did the IDC patients. According to the WHO classification, mucinous carcinoma, metaplastic carcinomas and apocrine carcinoma responded poorly to NAC. The disease-free survival and overall survival were significantly worse for patients with metaplastic carcinomas (p < 0.001 and p < 0.001) and with invasive lobular carcinoma (p = 0.03 and p < 0.001) than other cancers. Despite their poor response to treatment, patients with mucinous carcinoma and apocrine carcinoma had a good prognosis.Conclusions: The response to standardized NAC and prognosis varies for each histological type. For some types, the prognosis was not associated with the clinicopathological response to NAC. Innovative regimens should therefore be investigated for each histological type to achieve the best response. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The emerging epidemic of estrogen-related cancers in young women in a developing Asian country	The incidence of breast and genital tract cancers is increasing among Taiwanese women, but the age specificity and histopathological features of these cancers have not been determined. We used a descriptive epidemiological method and data from the Taiwan Cancer Registry (19792007) to examine secular trends in the age-specific incidences of female breast cancer, three major female genital tract cancers and the histopathological subtypes of these cancers. Age-specific incidence rates in the United States (19782002) were used as an external reference, and the incidence rates of all malignancies and of malignant brain tumors were used as internal references. We found that age-adjusted incidence rates of female breast, uterine, and ovarian cancers increased in Taiwan from 1979 to 2007, whereas the incidence of cervical cancer decreased after 1998. The largest increase was observed for ductal and lobular carcinomas of the breast and endometrioid carcinomas of the uterus and ovary in women =55 years, all of these tumors show a high prevalence of hormone receptor expressions. In addition, hormone-receptor-positive rates of breast cancer were uniquely higher in younger, as opposed to older, Taiwanese women. These findings indicate that estrogen-related cancers rapidly emerge in young women in Taiwan and that incidence rates are catching up with that of women living in the United States.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Nuclear Kaiso Expression Is Associated with High Grade and Triple-Negative Invasive Breast Cancer	Kaiso is a BTB/POZ transcription factor that is ubiquitously expressed in multiple cell types and functions as a transcriptional repressor and activator. Little is known about Kaiso expression and localization in breast cancer. Here, we have related pathological features and molecular subtypes to Kaiso expression in 477 cases of human invasive breast cancer. Nuclear Kaiso was predominantly found in invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) (p = 0.007), while cytoplasmic Kaiso expression was linked to invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) (p = 0.006). Although cytoplasmic Kaiso did not correlate to clinicopathological features, we found a significant correlation between nuclear Kaiso, high histological grade (p = 0.023), ER alpha negativity (p = 0.001), and the HER2-driven and basal/triple-negative breast cancers (p = 0.018). Interestingly, nuclear Kaiso was also abundant in BRCA1-associated breast cancer (p < 0.001) and invasive breast cancer overexpressing EGFR (p = 0.019). We observed a correlation between nuclear Kaiso and membrane-localized E-cadherin and p120-catenin (p120) (p < 0.01). In contrast, cytoplasmic p120 strongly correlated with loss of E-cadherin and low nuclear Kaiso (p = 0.005). We could confirm these findings in human ILC cells and cell lines derived from conditional mouse models of ILC. Moreover, we present functional data that substantiate a mechanism whereby E-cadherin controls p120-mediated relief of Kaiso-dependent gene repression. In conclusion, our data indicate that nuclear Kaiso is common in clinically aggressive ductal breast cancer, while cytoplasmic Kaiso and a p120-mediated relief of Kaiso-dependent transcriptional repression characterize ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Periductal mastitis in a male breast masquerading as lobular carcinoma on fine needle aspiration cytology	Fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) is quite successful in identifying specific benign and malignant breast lesions, but its role in the categorization of proliferative breast lesions has not been well defined. Mastitis/ breast abscess can lead to intense inflammatory response; however, its association with epithelial hyperplasia is rarely reported. At times, it may be difficult to differentiate dense lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. We present a case of periductal mastitis associated with epithelial hyperplasia, presenting as a subaerolar swelling in a male breast, which was misinterpreted as lobular carcinoma on FNAC. Diagn. Cytopathol. 2011; (C) 2011 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer pathology: The impact of molecular taxonomy on morphological taxonomy	The concept of having an intrinsic subtype, or a molecular taxonomy, lets us clearly recognize that breast cancers have characteristically different patterns of gene expression, thus giving newfound significance to morphological taxonomy. In this review, the concept of the intrinsic subtype is discussed, research questions are introduced to refine the significance of morphological taxonomy, and a corresponding example is presented between microarray analysis and immunohistochemical subtype, or histological taxonomy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Systematic in vivo analysis of PI3K pathway aberrations in a mouse model for invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Radial scar without associated atypical epithelial proliferation on image-guided 14-gauge needle core biopsy: Analysis of 49 cases from a single-centre and review of the literature	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the reliability of image-guided 14-gauge :leedle core biopsy in the diagnosis of radial scar without associated atypical epithelial proliferation, by comparison with definitive histological diagnosis on surgical excision. The records of 8792 consecutive image-guided 14-gauge needle core biopsy of the breast performed from January 1996 to December 2009 were reviewed. Forty-nine cases of radial scar without associated atypical epithelial proliferation were identified and compared with definitive histological diagnosis on surgical excision.The definitive histological diagnosis on surgical excision confirmed the results of image-guided 14-gauge needle core biopsy in 36 of 49 cases (73.5%), in 9 cases (18.3%) radial scar was associated with atypical epithelial proliferation, while 4 cases out of 49 cases were upgraded to carcinoma (3 cases of ductal carcinoma in situ and one case of invasive lobular carcinoma), with an underestimation rate of 8.2%.A diagnosis of radial scar without associated atypical epithelial proliferation m image-guided 14-gauge needle core biopsy does not exclude a malignancy on surgical excision: consequently during the multidisciplinary discussion further assessment by surgical excision or vacuum-assisted excision, as recently reported, needs to be considered to obtain a definitive histological diagnosis. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Tumor type and single-cell/mesothelial-like cell pattern of breast carcinoma metastases in pleural and peritoneal effusions	Invasive ductal and lobular breast carcinomas often have different preferred metastasis sites and distinct histomorphologic characteristics. Their metastatic cytomorphologic cell features in body cavity fluids are generally readily recognized, but the single-cell/mesothelial-like pattern and its relationship to the primary tumor type have not been well studied, nor whether metastases have a propensity for certain body cavity sites on the basis of the primary tumor type. To further assess the tumor type and single-cell pattern of breast carcinoma metastases in pleural and peritoneal effusions, we retrospectively studied 853 pleural and peritoneal effusions and correlated the findings with the primary tumor type. When necessary, the single- cell/mesothelial-like pattern was documented immunohistochemically. Metastatic breast carcinomas represented 249 (50.8%) of 490 pleural and 51 (14.0%) of 363 peritoneal effusions. Most metastases in pleural and peritoneal effusions were ductal carcinomas (92.4% and 62.7%, respectively). Lobular carcinoma accounted for only 2 (0.8%) of 249 pleural and 11 (21.6%) of 51 peritoneal effusions. The single-cell/mesothelial-like cell pattern was found in all lobular carcinomas but also in 11 (6.0%) of 184 reviewed ductal carcinomas (nine pleural and two peritoneal). Awareness of these findings and the use of immunohistochemical analyses are necessary for accurately diagnosing metastatic breast carcinoma, especially lobular type. Diagn. Cytopathol. 2010. (C) 2010 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of clinicopathological characteristics and prognoses between bilateral and unilateral breast cancer	The clinical significance of bilateral breast cancer is unclear and its influence on prognosis is controversial. We compared the characteristics and prognosis of bilateral breast cancer and unilateral breast cancer.Our study included 4,183 patients with breast cancer who were treated at Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center between January 1, 2000, and December 31, 2007. Bilateral breast cancer was categorized as synchronous (within 3 months) or metachronous (diagnosed after 3 months of first cancer). SPSS was used for data analysis.106 (2.5%) and 31 (0.7%) patients were diagnosed with metachronous and synchronous bilateral cancer. Women with bilateral cancer had more frequent postmenopause, HER-2 negativity, and advanced disease than in patients with unilateral cancer. Young age at diagnosis, invasive lobular carcinoma, ER/PR negativity, HER-2 positivity, radiation, large tumor size (T > 5 cm), and stage III disease of the first cancer were risk factors for contralateral cancer. The 5-year disease-free survival and overall survival rates were 76 and 83% for unilateral cancer, while 32 and 72% for bilateral cancer (P = 0.000 for both).Bilateral cancer was associated with shorter disease-free survival and overall survival than unilateral cancer. The prognosis of metachronous bilateral cancer, especially those diagnosed within 2 years after the first cancer was significantly worse than synchronous bilateral cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical significance of miR-155 expression in breast cancer and effects of miR-155 ASO on cell viability and apoptosis	Accumulating evidence shows that mircroRNAs (miRNAs) play a vital role in tumorigenesis. miR-155 is one of the most multifunctional miRNAs whose overexpression has been found to be associated with different types of cancer including breast cancer. To further determine the potential involvement of miR-155 in breast cancer, we evaluated the expression levels of miR-155 by real-time PCR and correlated the results with clinicopathological features. Matched non-tumor and tumor tissues of 42 infiltrating ductal carcinomas and 3 infiltrating lobular carcinomas were analyzed for miR-155 expression by real-time PCR. Further, we used an antisense technique to inhibit miR-155 expression in vitro. WST-8 test was performed to evaluate cell viability and apoptosis assay was used to investigate the effect of the miR-155 antisense oligonucleotide (miR-155 ASO) on HS578T cell death. The expression levels of miR-155 were significantly higher in tumor tissues than the levels in matched non-tumor tissues (P<0.001). Up-regulated miR-155 expression was associated with lymph node positivity (P=0.034), higher proliferation index (Ki-67 >10%) (P=0.019) and advanced breast cancer TNM clinical stage (P=0.002). Interestingly, we next found that miR-155 expression levels had close relations with ER status (P=0.041) and PR status (P=0.029). Transfection efficiency detected by flow cytometry was higher than 70%, the WST-8 test showed that viability of HS578T cells was greatly reduced after transfection with miR-155 ASO compared with the scramble (SCR) group or the liposome group. The Annexin V-FITC/PI assay also indicated that transfection with miR-155 ASO promoted apoptosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Role of Big Endothelin-1 in the Early Diagnosis of Lobular Neoplasia of the Breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Characteristics of Primary Breast Cancers with Non Mass like Enhancements in a Breast MRI		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Skin Sparing Mastectomy: Evaluation of Oncological Safety in 82 Cases Treated in Brazilian National Cancer Institute		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neither Ductal Nor Lobular Invasive Breast Cancer and Sentinel Node		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Sentinel Lymph Node Micrometastases. How to Act?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical Dilemmas in Bilateral Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Organotropism and prognostic marker discordance in distant metastases of breast carcinoma: fact or fiction? A clinicopathologic analysis	Prior studies have suggested that the type of breast cancer influences the location of distant metastases ("organotropism") and that there may be discordance of estrogen receptor and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (Her2) expression between primaries and metastases. Our aims were to investigate the relationship between tumor type and metastatic site and to compare biomarker expression between primary and metastatic tumors. We retrospectively reviewed 102 biopsy-proven cases of breast cancer metastatic to distant sites from 2000 to 2010 and 34 corresponding primaries for histologic subtype, grade, lymphovascular invasion, lymph node metastasis, and expression of estrogen receptor and Her2. Most metastases were of ductal (88) and lobular (11) histologic types. Available data on primaries indicated that the majority were grade III with positive lymph node metastasis and lymphovascular invasion. Biomarkers on 73 metastases showed 37 estrogen receptor positive/Her2-, 6 estrogen receptor positive/Her2+, 8 estrogen receptor negative/Her2+, and 22 estrogen receptor negative/Her2-. The most common metastatic sites were the lung (26%), bone (32%), and liver (21%). We found no association between estrogen receptor/Her2 profile and metastatic site (P = .16). When compared with ductal carcinoma, lobular carcinoma showed a unique metastatic pattern to gastrointestinal tract/gynecologic sites (P = .014). Of 34 cases with paired prognostic markers for primary and metastatic sites, 7 (20%) demonstrated discordance in estrogen receptor-positive/Her2 profile between the primary and the metastasis. Because the estrogen receptor-positive/Her2 profile of metastatic breast cancer did not always match that of the primary tumor, it is important to repeat the prognostic markers of metastasis. (C) 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Heterogenity of Cancer Cells and Medical Practice		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	p53 MUTATIONS IN CLASSIC AND PLEOMORPHIC INVASIVE BREAST CARCINOMAS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	NOTCH INHIBITION INDUCES GROWTH ARREST IN LOBULAR BREAST CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Characterization of p120/Kaiso targets in lobular breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	E-catenin loss causes anoikis resistance in breast cancer cells		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Variation in the risk of radiation-related contralateral breast cancer by histology and estrogen receptor expression in SEER	Radiation exposure, particularly at a young age, is an established cause of breast cancer. It is not known whether radiation-related breast cancer risk varies by molecular subtype. We characterized the relative risk (RR) of contralateral breast cancer (CBC) related to radiotherapy by histology and estrogen receptor (ER) status of the CBC in five-year survivors in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database using Poisson regression models adjusted for attained age and calendar year, age at and year of treatment, ER status of the first breast cancer, and disease stage. 205,316 female breast cancer survivors were followed for an average of 10 years from 1973 until 2007, during which time 6924 women developed a subsequent primary invasive breast cancer in the contralateral breast. The overall RR (and 95% confidence interval (CI)) of radiotherapy-related CBC was 1.11 (1.05-1.16). There was no heterogeneity in risk according to histology of the CBC (P > 0.50) for all ages or young age at exposure, but case numbers were small for subtypes other than ductal and lobular carcinomas. Information on ER status was available from 1990 onwards for 3546 CBC cases, of which 2597 (73%) were ER+ and 949 (27%) were ER-. The RRs were 1.10 (1.02-1.19) for ER+ CBC and 1.19 (1.04-1.35) for ER- CBC (P (difference) = 0.33). Among women treated age < 35 years, radiation-related risk of CBC was non-significantly elevated for ER- (RR = 1.38, 95% CI: 0.96-1.97) but not for ER+ tumors (RR = 0.80, 95% CI: 0.47-1.35) (P (difference) = 0.09). We did not find clear evidence that radiation-related risk varies by histology or ER status, but our findings, which were the first to examine this question, were suggestive of possible differences by ER status that may merit further investigation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular Neoplasia on Core Needle Biopsy: Clinical and Radiopathologic Correlation Study with Follow-Up Excision Biopsy of 87 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Radial Scar at Image-Guided Needle Biopsy: Is Follow-Up Excision Always Necessary?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Excision Specimens Evaluated by Micro-Computed Tomography (Micro-CT) with Histopathological Correlations		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) and Patched-1 (PTCH1) Protein Expression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma; (PTCH1) Protein Expression Independently Predicts Outcome		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Occult Involvement of Nipple by Malignancy Occurs in 14% of Therapeutic Nipple-Sparing Mastectomies		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Pathology Second Review Identifies Clinically Significant Discrepancies in 10% of Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Whole-Slide Digital Imaging Versus Optical Microscopy for Primary Diagnosis of Hematoxylin-and-Eosin-Stained Breast Tissue Sections		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evalution of GATA3 Expression in Tumors from Various Organs		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of an Effective Immunohistochemical Panel in Distinction of Breast Carcinoma from Endometrial Adenocarcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Breast Carcinomas in Ghana: Higher Frequency of High Grade Tumors with Squamous Differentiation,Triple Negative Status, and EZH2 Expression		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of Androgen Receptor and Its Active (Phosphorylated) Forms in Breast Cancer Progression		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer Subtypes and Epigenetic Characterization of in Women from Senegal, West Africa		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinoma and Oncotype Dx (R): Impact of Pathology and Recurrence Score on Treatment Plan		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Terminal Duct Lobular Units (TDLU) in the Nipple: Implications for Nipple-Sparing Mastectomy (NSM)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Single Institution Analysis of Metastatic Breast Carcinoma and Axillary Sentinel Lymph Node False-Negative Intraoperative Interpretations over a Ten Year Period		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic Value of FNA Processed by ThinPrep for Assessment of Axillary Lymph Node Status in Patients with Invasive Carcinoma of Breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pathological and Clinical Characteristics of Mammary Paget Disease: 25-Year Experience from a Major Tertiary Referral Center		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of an Effective Immunohistochemical Panel in Distinction of Breast Carcinoma from Ovarian Serous Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Morphological Effects of Chemotherapy on Ovarian Serous Adenocarcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Quantitative Evaluation of Histologic Grade of Breast Cancer Using Digital Image Analysis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Quantitative Evaluation of the Morphological Heterogeneity in Breast Cancer Progression		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histopathologic and Immunohistochemical Reappraisal of DMBA-Induced Mammary Tumors Revealing a Potential Model for Cancer Stem Cell Pathophysiological and Pharmacological Studies		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neurotensin Receptor 1 (NTSR1) Expression in Breast Carcinomas Is Universal and Independent of ER/PR/Her2		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of an Effective Immunohistochemical Panel in Distinction of Breast Carcinoma from Lung Adenocarcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	In Pursuit of Comprehensive Pathology Reports: Implementing Electronic Cancer Checklists		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Radial Scar at Image-Guided Needle Biopsy: Is Follow-Up Excision Always Necessary?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Sonic Hedgehog (Shh) and Patched-1 (PTCH1) Protein Expression in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma; (PTCH1) Protein Expression Independently Predicts Outcome		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	High Grade Lobular Carcinoma In Situ in Breast Excision: Potential for Misdiagnosis as Solid Type DCIS or Classical LCIS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Axillary Recurrence of Breast Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Toluidine Blue - Formalin Mixture: A Useful Tool To Enhance Detection of Benign and Malignant Breast Lesions for Gross Submission of Breast Specimens		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Occult Involvement of Nipple by Malignancy Occurs in 14% of Therapeutic Nipple-Sparing Mastectomies		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Pathology Second Review Identifies Clinically Significant Discrepancies in 10% of Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Whole-Slide Digital Imaging Versus Optical Microscopy for Primary Diagnosis of Hematoxylin-and-Eosin-Stained Breast Tissue Sections		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of GATA3 Expression in Tumors from Various Organs		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	COX-2 (Cyclooxygenase-2) Expression Is Associated with Agressive Disease in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of an Effective Immunohistochemical Panel in Distinction of Breast Carcinoma from Endometrial Adenocarcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Claudin Expression in Invasive Lobular Carcinoma with an Emphasis on Pleomorphic Lobular Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Breast Carcinomas in Ghana: Higher Frequency of High Grade Tumors with Squamous Differentiation, Triple Negative Status, and EZH2 Expression		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Can Tumor Cellularity Predict Outcomes in Primary Non-Treated Breast Carcinoma?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of Androgen Receptor and Its Active (Phosphorylated) Forms in Breast Cancer Progression		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer Subtypes and Epigenetic Characterization of in Women from Senegal, West Africa		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinoma and Oncotype Dx (R): Impact of Pathology and Recurrence Score on Treatment Plan		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	How Many Tumor Cells in the Intraoperative Imprint Cytology of Sentinel Lymph Nodes Are Enough To Diagnose Metastatic Breast Carcinomas?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Terminal Duct Lobular Units (TDLU) in the Nipple: Implications for Nipple-Sparing Mastectomy (NSM)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Single Institution Analysis of Metastatic Breast Carcinoma and Axillary Sentinel Lymph Node False-Negative Intraoperative Interpretations over a Ten Year Period		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic Value of FNA Processed by ThinPrep for Assessment of Axillary Lymph Node Status in Patients with Invasive Carcinoma of Breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of an Effective Immunohistochemical Panel in Distinction of Breast Carcinoma from Ovarian Serous Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Quantitative Evaluation of Histologic Grade of Breast Cancer Using Digital Image Analysis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Quantitative Evaluation of the Morphological Heterogeneity in Breast Cancer Progression		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histopathologic and Immunohistochemical Reappraisal of DMBA-Induced Mammary Tumors Revealing a Potential Model for Cancer Stem Cell Pathophysiological and Pharmacological Studies		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neurotensin Receptor 1 (NTSR1) Expression in Breast Carcinomas Is Universal and Independent of ER/PR/Her2		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of an Effective Immunohistochemical Panel in Distinction of Breast Carcinoma from Lung Adenocarcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	In Pursuit of Comprehensive Pathology Reports: Implementing Electronic Cancer Checklists		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Classical lobular breast carcinoma consistently lacks topoisomerase-IIa gene amplification: implications for the tailored use of anthracycline-based chemotherapies	Aims: There is consistent lack of data focusing the topoisomerase-IIa gene status in lobular breast carcinoma, a subtype that usually shows poor responsiveness to chemotherapies including those using anthracycline drugs.Methods and results: Forty-six infiltrative lobular carcinomas, 13 with matched metastases, were used. Topoisomerase-IIa gene amplification was evaluated by chromogenic in situ hybridization (CISH) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). We also assessed Her2/neu status by CISH, FISH and silver in situ hybridization (SISH). HER2 immunoexpression was assessed by the HercepTest. Forty-four of 46 (95%) cases revealed no topoisomerase-II alpha amplification, whereas two of 46 (5%) cases were amplified by all three techniques. Eleven of the 13 metastatic sites showed no amplification either in the primary or in the metastases (85%); the remaining two were amplified (15%). Her2/neu was not amplified in 44 of 46 (95%) cases nor was it amplified in 11 of 13 (95%) metastatic tissues. The two cases showing Her2/neu and topoisomerase-IIa amplification scored 3+; the remaining non-amplified cases scored 0 or 1+ in 40 and 2+ in four cases.Conclusions: In the era of personalized and tailored therapies, we suggest that patients affected by the classical lobular subtype of breast carcinoma constantly lack the ad hoc predictive rationale for receiving common chemotherapy that includes anthracyclines.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Role of Axillary Lymph Node Fine Needle Aspiration in Breast Cancer Staging prior to Chemotherapy with Histological Correlation	Objective: Axillary lymph node (LN) sampling is important for breast cancer staging and can be performed using fine needle aspiration (FNA). The aim of this study is to review the axillary LN FNAs performed at our institution prior to treatment, and to correlate their results with the available LN histology in order to evaluate the diagnostic utility of FNA. Study Design: A total of 130 cases were retrospectively identified over a 1-year period and reviewed. The FNA findings were correlated with the histological findings in 65 (50%) LN core biopsies, 43 (33%) sentinel LN biopsies, and 22 (17%) axillary dissections. Results: One hundred and thirteen FNA cases (89%) correlated with the histology, while 14 cases (11%) did not correlate, including 1 false positive and 13 false negatives. Of the false-negative cases, metastases in the biopsy ranged from isolated tumor cells to 5 mm in the greatest dimension. The overall sensitivity was 85%, specificity 98%, positive predictive value 99%, and negative predictive value 75%. Conclusion: Pretherapy staging of breast cancer by FNA is a useful diagnostic modality with a high specificity and positive predictive value. Due to false-negative diagnoses, a negative FNA should be followed up with further LN sampling. Copyright (C) 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Overexpression of Calreticulin in Malignant and Benign Breast Tumors: Relationship with Humoral Immunity	Objective: Calreticulin is a multicompartmental protein which regulates many important cellular responses. The aim of this study was to elucidate whether the intensity and location of calreticulin overexpression in tumor cells are related to the elevated humoral immunity to calreticulin in patients with benign or malignant breast disease. Methods: This study involved 27 patients with benign and 58 patients with malignant breast tumors before surgical resection and 38 healthy volunteers. Cytoplasmatic or membranous calreticulin overexpression in malignant or benign cells in paraffin-embedded tissues was determined using immunohistochemistry. Levels of the serum anti-calreticulin autoantibodies were detected by ELISA. Results: Statistically significant differences between serum levels of IgA of anti-calreticulin antibodies in controls and patients with breast tumors, and between controls and patients with nonmalignant breast diseases were found, but no statistically significant differences were found between levels of serum IgG anti-calreticulin antibodies. Humoral immunity to calreticulin developed against cytoplasmatic and co-localized membranous calreticulin was not correlated to the intensity of its overexpression and was present even in the absence of its membranous localization. Conclusions: The degree of calreticulin overexpression in lobular breast carcinoma is lower than in ductal breast carcinoma. Elevated concentrations of anti-calreticulin IgA antibodies were present more frequently in patients with metastasis in locoregional lymph nodes in comparison to anti-calreticulin IgG antibodies. Copyright (C) 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular Lesions of the Breast Imaging Findings of Lobular Neoplasia and Invasive Lobular Carcinoma	The clinical and radiological diagnoses of lobular neoplasia (LN) and invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) are difficult because they have no specific findings. The purpose of this study is to illustrate the imaging and pathological features of LN and ILC. For lobular lesions, imaging is the basic and essential diagnostic tool, so the understanding and effective use of multimodality imaging findings are important. This article shows imaging findings of LN, which are seldom known, and ILC as well as their characteristic histopathological features. (J Reprod Med 2012;57:26-34)	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer occurred after Hodgkin's disease: Clinico-pathological features, treatments and outcome: Analysis of 214 cases	Background: Secondary tumours (ST) represent a major concern in survivors of Hodgkin's disease (HD). Breast cancer (BC) is the most frequent ST among young treated women.Material and methods: One hundred and eighty-nine women treated for HD by radiotherapy (RT) and/or chemotherapy (CT) subsequently developed 214 BCs.Results: Median age at HD diagnosis was 25 years (34% were less than 20). Median interval between HD and BC was 18.6 years, with a 42-year median age at first BC. According to the TNM classification, there were 30 (14%) To (non palbable lesions), 86 (40%) T-1, 56 (26%) T-2, 13 (6%) T3T4 and 29 (14%) T-x. There were 25 (13.2%) contralateral BC. 160 (75%) and 15 (7%) tumours were infiltrating ductal and lobular carcinomas, 7 (3.3%) were other subtypes and 27 (22%) DCIS.The rate of axillary nodal involvement was 32%. Among 203 operated tumours, 79 (39%) were treated by breast conserving surgery (BCS), with RT in 56 (71%) cases. CT and hormonal treatment were delivered in 51% and 45% of the patients. With a 50-month median follow-up, local recurrence occurred in 12% of the tumours (9% after mastectomy, 21% after lumpectomy alone and 13.7% after lumpectomy with RT). Metastasis occurred in 47 (26%) patients. The risk factors were pN+, pT, high SBR grade and young age (<50 years). The ten-year overall and specific survival rates were 53% and 63.5%, respectively. The ten-year specific survival rates were 79% for pT(0)T(1)T(2), 48% for pT(3)T(4) (p=0.0002) and 79% for pN(0) versus 38.5% for pN+ (p=0.00026). Among 67 deaths, 43 (73%) were due to BC.Conclusion: Patients and physicians should be aware that BC is the most frequent secondary tumour in young women treated for HD. The new RT modalities (lower doses and involved fields) may decrease the risk in the future. However, these women require a careful monitoring as from 8 to 10 years after HD treatment, combining mammography, ultrasound and MRI according to several ongoing studies. BC with whole breast irradiation is feasible in some selected cases. (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinico-Pathologic Features of Breast Cancer Patients with Primary Metastatic Disease Versus Localized Disease: A Multicenter Study.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	An Open-Label, Phase Ila, Non-Randomized Study of Radium-223 in Breast Cancer Patients with Bone Dominant Disease No Longer Considered Suitable for Endocrine Therapy.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression Patterns of Receptor Activator of Nuclear Factor-kB (RANK) and Src in a Series of Primary Breast Tumors (BT) and Bone Metastases (BM) in Patients (pts) with Metastatic Breast Cancer (MBC)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Are There Variations in Invasive Tumour Characteristics between Different Ethnic Groups?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Are We Performing More Mastectomies on Women Diagnosed with Invasive Breast Cancer?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Magnitude of Trastuzumab Benefit in HER2-Positive (HER2+) Lobular Breast Carcinoma (BC): Results of a HERA Trial Sub-Group Analysis.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinoma - A Luminal Breast Cancer Histotype Enriched for Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition Features		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Cancer Liver Metastases - Possibilities and Limits of Surgical Treatment.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of Residual Cancer Burden Index (RCBI) as a Predictor of Disease Free Survival in a Non-Selected Cohort of Breast Cancer Patients Treated in the Neoadjuvant Setting.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular Characterization of African Breast Cancer; Results from a Large Tissue Microarray Study.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Presence of Disseminated Tumor Cells after Adjuvant Chemotherapy in Breast Cancer and Disseminated Tumor Cells Monitoring during Secondary Adjuvant Treatment		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Synchronous Double Tumor of Breast Cancer and Gastrointestinal Stromal Tumor in a Patient with Neurofibromatosis Type 1: Report of a Case	We report a rare case of synchronous double tumor formation of breast cancer and gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) in a patient with neurofibromatosis type 1(NF-1). A 76-year-old woman with a history of NF-1 who had undergone left modified mastectomy for breast cancer seven years previously was admitted to our hospital because of a right breast tumor and abdominal discomfort. Computed tomography revealed an enhanced irregular tumor in the right breast and peripheral enhanced tumors in the abdomen. The patient underwent right modified mastectomy and laparoscopic tumor resection combined with small intestine surgery. Histopathological examination revealed the presence of invasive lobular carcinoma in the right breast and GIST in the abdomen. The synchronous development of breast cancer and GIST in a patient with NF-1 is extremely rare, with this being the second case ever reported.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma: response to neoadjuvant letrozole therapy	Invasive lobular cancer (ILC) responds poorly to neoadjuvant chemotherapy but appears to respond well to endocrine therapy. We examined the effectiveness of neoadjuvant letrozole in postmenopausal women (PMW) with estrogen receptor (ER)-rich ILC. PMW were considered for treatment with neoadjuvant letrozole if they had ER-rich, large operable, or locally advanced cancers, or were unfit for surgical therapy. Tumor volume was estimated at diagnosis and at 3 months using calipers (clinical), ultrasound, and mammography. At 3 months, if physically fit, women were assessed for surgery. Responsive women with cancers too large for breast-conserving surgery continued with letrozole. Patients had surgery or were switched to alternative therapy if tumor volume was increasing. Sixty-one patients (mean age, 76.2 years) with 63 ILCs were treated with letrozole for a parts per thousand yen3 months. The mean reduction in tumor volume at 3 months was 66% (median, 76%) measured clinically, 61% (median, 73%) measured by ultrasound, and 54% (median, 60%) measured by mammography. Surgery was possible at 3 months in 24 cancers in 24 patients, and all but two of the remaining patients continued with letrozole therapy for a median duration of 9 months. At the time of this publication, 40 patients with a total of 41 cancers have undergone surgery. The rate of successful breast conservation was 81% (25/31). Twenty-one patients have continued with letrozole monotherapy, and 19 remain controlled on letrozole at a median of 2.8 years. There is a high rate of response to letrozole in PMW with ER-rich ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	POTENTIAL IMPACT OF PREOPERATIVE MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING OF THE BREAST ON PATIENT SELECTION FOR ACCELERATED PARTIAL BREAST IRRADIATION	Purpose: Accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) after breast-conserving therapy is currently under investigation in prospective randomized studies. Multifocality and multicentricity are exclusion criteria for APBI. Preoperative breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) can detect ipsilateral and contralateral invasive tumor foci or ductal carcinoma in situ in addition to conventional diagnostic methods (clinical examination, mammography, and ultrasonography). The objective of this retrospective study was to evaluate the impact of preoperative MRI on patient selection for APBI.Methods and Materials: From 2002 to 2007, a total of 579 consecutive, nonselected patients with newly diagnosed early-stage breast cancer received preoperative breast MRI in addition to conventional imaging studies at the Bonn University Breast Cancer Center. In retrospect, 113 patients would have met the criteria for APBI using conventional imaging workup (clinical tumor size <= 3 cm; negative axillary lymph node status; unifocal disease; no evidence of distant metastases; no invasive lobular carcinoma, ductal and lobular carcinoma in situ, or Paget's disease). We analyzed the amount of additional ipsilateral and contralateral tumor foci detected by MRI.Results: MRI detected additional tumor foci in 8.8% of patients eligible for APBI (11 tumor foci in 10 of 113 patients), either ipsilateral (n = 7, 6.2%) or contralateral (n = 4, 3.5%). In 1 patient, MRI helped detect additional tumor focus both ipsilaterally and contralaterally.Conclusions: Preoperative breast MRI is able to identify additional tumor foci in a clinically relevant number of cases in this highly selected group of patients with low-risk disease and may be useful in selecting patients for APBI. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CLINICAL OUTCOMES USING ACCELERATED PARTIAL BREAST IRRADIATION IN PATIENTS WITH INVASIVE LOBULAR CARCINOMA	Purpose: We compared clinical outcomes of women diagnosed with either invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) or invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) treated with accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI).Methods and Materials: A total of 16 patients with ILC received APBI as part of their breast-conservation therapy (BCT) and were compared with 410 patients with IDC that received APBI as part of their BCT. Clinical, pathologic, and treatment related variables were analyzed including age, tumor size, hormone receptor status, surgical margins, lymph node status, adjuvant hormonal therapy, adjuvant chemotherapy, and APBI modality. Clinical outcomes including local recurrence (LR), regional recurrence (RR), disease-free survival (DFS), cause-specific survival (CSS), and overall survival (OS) were analyzed.Results: Median follow-up was 3.8 years for the ILC patients and 6.0 years for the IDC patients. ILC patients were more likely to have positive margins (20.0% vs. 3.9%, p = 0.006), larger tumors (14.1 mm vs. 10.9 mm, p = 0.03) and less likely to be node positive (0% vs. 9.5%, p < 0.001) when compared with patients diagnosed with IDC. The 5-year rate of LR was 0% for the ILC cohort and 2.5% for the IDC cohort (p = 0.59). No differences were seen in the rates of RR (0% vs. 0.7%, p = 0.80), distant metastases (0% vs. 3.5%, p = 0.54), DFS (100% vs. 94%, p = 0.43), CSS (100% vs. 97%, p = 0.59), or OS (92% vs. 89%, p = 0.88) between the ILC and IDC patients, respectively. Additionally, when node-positive patients were excluded from the IDC cohort, no differences in the rates of LR (0% vs. 2.2%, p = 0.62), RR (0% vs. 0%), DFS (100% vs. 95%, p = 0.46), CSS (100% vs. 98%, p = 0.63), or OS (92% vs. 89%, p = 0.91) were noted between the ILC and IDC patients.Conclusion: Women with ILC had excellent clinical outcomes after APBI. No difference in local control was seen between patients with invasive lobular versus invasive ductal histology. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Obstructive colon metastases from lobular breast cancer: report of a case and review of the literature	Introduction. Gastrointestinal metastases from breast cancer are rare. One large series reported a rate of 0.7% of gastrointestinal metastatic manifestations from breast cancer, but its true incidence could be underestimated. Here we report a case of bowel obstruction caused by sigmoid metastases from breast cancer and describe its relevance to histological origin and clinical practice.Methods. The clinical course and histopathology of the case are reviewed and compared with reports of similar cases in the literature.Results. An 80-year-old woman presented with bowel obstruction. Her medical history included infiltrating lobular breast cancer treated with left radical mastectomy 25 years before the current presentation; 13 years later bone metastases developed and were treated with hormone therapy. In 2003 the patient came to our emergency department because of symptoms of bowel obstruction. A computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a mass in the distal sigmoid causing the obstruction. A colostomy was performed, followed by a second operation completed with Hartmann's procedure. Histological examination revealed metastases from invasive lobular carcinoma. The patient was discharged 45 days postoperatively and died 9 months later because of disease progression.Conclusions. Although gastrointestinal metastases from breast cancer are rare, patients with diagnosed breast cancer, particularly invasive lobular carcinoma, should be regularly followed up with endoscopy, CT, endosonography and PET-CT when abdominal symptoms are present. This could permit early diagnosis of gastrointestinal metastases and improve treatment planning.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Quantifying the Extent of Invasive Carcinoma and Margin Status in Partial Mastectomy Cases Having a Gross Lesion Is a Defined Tissue Processing Protocol Needed?	Accurate estimation of disease extent and margin status is critical when evaluating partial mastectomy cases because both are predictors of recurrence. No published standards exist for processing specimens involved by invasive carcinoma, presumably because such cases have a gross lesion. We retrospectively studied 100 partial mastectomy cases and concluded that a standardized tissue mapping protocol is needed to ensure adequate pathologic examination even when a gross lesion is present. When mapped and unmapped findings were compared, 17 cases (10 with ductal and 7 with lobular carcinoma) had an increase in carcinoma size, 12 cases (9 with ductal and 3 with lobular carcinoma) had an increase in pathologic T stage, and positive margins were found in 8 cases (7 with ductal and 1 with lobular carcinoma). We describe our tissue-mapping protocol, and advocate its use as a standardized protocol for processing all partial mastectomy specimens.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lymph-node metastases in invasive lobular carcinoma are different from those in ductal carcinoma of the breast	Aim Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) and invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) of the breast are distinct morphological entities with different biological features and clinical behaviour. In the present study, the authors compare the axillary-lymph-node (ALN) status of patients with grade-matched ILC (no=426) and IDC (no=820). The pattern of nodal metastatic deposits (nodular, sinusoidal and diffuse) and the proportion of involved nodes were also analysed in a selected group of 246 tumours, which were associated with a single positive ALN.Results Compared with grade-matched IDC, ILC was associated with a higher nodal stage (13.1% vs 4.5% of ILC and IDC were stage 3), higher absolute number of positive nodes and higher ratio of positive nodes (0.46+/-0.30 and 0.33+/-0.23 in ILC and IDC respectively). These differences were maintained in the different size subgroups. The most common metastatic morphological pattern was nodular in both types of carcinomas. A sinusoidal pattern was more frequent in IDC, and the diffuse pattern was more frequent in ILC. Despite these differences, ILC and grade-matched IDC exhibited similar rates of regional recurrences (RR) and breast-cancer survival.Conclusion This study provides clinical evidence which further demonstrates that ILC and IDC are biologically distinct entities with different lymph-node involvement patterns and ILC having a tendency to metastasise to more nodes than IDC. However, this difference was not associated with a significant impact on patient outcome.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Gastric metastasis of breast cancer: A single centre retrospective study	Background: Digestive metastasis of breast cancer are rare but when they do occur the stomach is one of the commoner sites.Aim: To describe the clinical, endoscopic, pathological features and treatment.Methods: 35 cases of gastric metastasis were identified retrospectively between 1980 and 2008.Results: The location of the gastric metastasis was fundus (n = 15, 43%), antrum (n = 15, 43%) or both (n=5, 14%). The histological subtype of primary breast cancer was invasive lobular carcinoma in 34 patients (97%). Hormonal receptors were positive in 19 out of 24 cases (79%), two out of 22 analysed were HER2 positive (9%). There were 16 (46%) patients with peritoneal carcinosis. The treatment was chemotherapy (n=13, 37%), hormonotherapy (n=2, 6%) or both (n = 13, 37%). The 2-year survival rate after gastric metastasis diagnosis was 53% with a median follow up of 31 months [7-84 months].Conclusion: Ninety-seven percent of gastric metastasis from breast cancers are derived from invasive lobular carcinoma. Seventy-nine percent of these are HER+ and comparison with the original histopathological slides of primary breast carcinoma should be performed to differentiate gastric metastasis from primary gastric carcinoma. Peritoneal carcinomatosis accompanied gastric metastasis in almost half the cases in this series and treatment was generally chemotherapy. (C) 2011 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Differential Expression of Transferrin Receptor (TfR) in a Spectrum of Normal to Malignant Breast Tissues: Implications for In Situ and Invasive Carcinoma	Transferrin receptor (TfR), a type II transmembranous receptor involved in iron uptake, is highly expressed in some cancers. We evaluated the expression of TfR in a spectrum of normal to malignant breast tissues to test the hypothesis that overexpression is associated with malignant transformation. Expression of TfR was studied by immunohistochemistry (CD71-Antibody, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Fremont, CA) for percent positive cells (%) and intensity of staining (0 to 3 score) in normal (n = 127), benign (n = 172), potentially premalignant and in-situ carcinoma (n = 65), and invasive carcinoma (n = 38). Normal and benign lesions had significantly lower TfR expression compared with premalignant lesions (atypical hyperplasia and carcinoma in situ) and invasive carcinoma (median %: 0, 10, 50, and 80, respectively; P < 0.0001). TfR expression was higher in high-grade ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) than in other grades of DCIS (median %: 95 vs 55; P = 0.02) and in high-grade invasive carcinoma. Among the latter, medullary carcinoma had the highest expression and there was a trend for invasive lobular carcinoma to have a higher expression than invasive ductal carcinoma. In invasive carcinoma cases, the proportion (%) of cells staining for TfR was inversely correlated with the percentage of estrogen receptor-positive cells, with a decreasing slope on linear regression models. In comparison, the relationship with progesterone receptor was not as well defined and linear regression models revealed close to a flat line. These data show that there is a differential expression of TfR in breast tissues with the highest expression in in-situ and invasive carcinoma and with aggressive phenotypes (higher grade DCIS and lower estrogen receptor positivity in invasive carcinomas). Further studies are indicated to determine whether TfR is an independently significant prognostic marker that may have potential as a therapeutic target in in-situ and invasive breast carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Adjuvant therapies for special types of breast cancer	Recent developments in the adjuvant treatment of breast cancer include an increasing attention to systemic therapies prescribed in homogeneous groups of patients according to the higher chance of benefit. A clear consequence of the current adjuvant treatment strategy is the importance of accurate and reliable histopathological assessment. A proper pathological evaluation may effectively support the definition of prognosis and treatment choice in niches of patients diagnosed with special types of breast cancer. Through the identification of special types of breast cancer, that account for up to 25% of all invasive breast carcinomas, it is possible to select patients with a very good prognosis often close to that of the general population ( e. g. tubular and pure cribriform carcinoma). Other features, such as those related with invasive classical lobular carcinoma, might have important correlates of responsiveness to therapy other than indicators of outcome. It was in fact demonstrated that the response to primary chemotherapy is significantly lower in invasive lobular carcinoma, if compared with the ductal histotype. However, the use of available information on special types of breast cancer has been limited in tailoring adjuvant therapy, owing to the absence of standardized criteria and partial reproducibility for diagnosis. Moreover, due to the relative rarity of the disease a large number of features that identify for special types of breast carcinomas have today no particular correlation with the prognosis, and limited data are available on the biology of a large number of breast cancer subtypes. The development of more effective therapies for patients with special types of breast cancer requires tailored treatment investigations through international cooperation and should not rely on information predominantly contributed from small retrospective analyses. Examination of patterns of relapse and treatment response within subpopulations in multiple randomized trials is also mandatory to make progress and reach consensus on how to treat individual patients with special types of breast cancer. (C) 2011 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Ductal Breast Cancer. Correlation Between Tumour Size in Physical Examination, Mammography, Magnetic Resonance and Pathological Anatomy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Infiltrating Lobular Carcinoma of the Breast - a Hospital General Experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Coexistence of Pregnancy-Like and Cystic Hypersecretory Hyperplasia with Invasive Lobular Carcinoma	Background: Lobular pregnancy-like hyperplasia (PLH) merged with cystic hypersecretory hyperplasia (CHH), designated PLH/CHH, is a rare multicystic breast lesion. A previous report has described the high rate of coexistent ductal carcinoma in situ in PLH/CHH; however, a PLH/CHH study involving a larger number of cases is necessary to unravel the clinical significance of this tumor type. Case Report: We describe a unique case of PLH/CHH that coexisted with multifocal lobular neoplasm. Multifocal invasive lobular carcinoma with lobular carcinoma in situ was observed to be adjacent to the PLH/CHH cystic lesions in the left breast of a 70-year-old woman. Conclusions: The present case documents the previously unreported coexistence of PLH/CHH accompanied by multifocal lobular carcinoma. Extensive examination, including an excisional biopsy, is prudent if a needle core biopsy reveals a PLH/CHH lesion.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Does 18FDG-PET/CT modify the treatment strategy in stage I-III breast cancer patients?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Epstein-Barr Virus and Breast Cancer: Lack of Evidence for an Association in Iranian Women	Controversies regarding the role of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in breast cancer and lack of published literature in this regard in Iran, prompted us to assess EBV presence in 100 breast carcinoma and 42 control biopsies obtained from Iranian women. Breast carcinoma cases were comprised of 81 invasive ductal carcinoma NOS, 9 invasive lobular carcinoma, 1 apocrine carcinoma, 2 cribriform carcinoma, 2 papillary carcinoma and 5 mucinous carcinoma. Control biopsies consisted of 13 fibroadenoma, 9 benign epithelial proliferation (adenosis and sclerosing adenosis), 9 usual ductal hyperplasia, 4 atypical ductal hyperplasia, 4 non-proliferative fibrocystic changes and 3 normal breast tissue. To identify EBV-infected cells we applied immunohistochemical analysis, using monoclonal antibody against Epstein-Barr virus-encoded nuclear antigen 2 (EBNA-2) and latent membrane protein 1 (LMP-1). Further, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to amplify EBV DNA, with primers that cover the EBV encoded RNA (EBER) and BamHIW regions. EBNA-2 and LMP-1 immunohistochemistry were negative in all breast cancer and control specimens. Using PCR, none of the 100 breast cancer samples or the 42 control specimens showed detectable EBV DNA. These results indicate that EBV may not play a significant role in the etiology of breast cancer in Iranian women.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Bilateral multiple extraocular muscle metastasis from breast carcinoma	We report a rare presentation of an initially misdiagnosed case of a pseudotumor, which on histopathology was diagnosed as bilateral breast metastases of lobular carcinoma involving multiple extraocular muscles. A 61-year-old lady presented with external ophthalmoplegia and diplopia. Incisional biopsy was performed using a lid crease approach and the patient received radiotherapy and hormonal therapy. Following prolonged hormonal therapy, complete remission was achieved, with improvement in ocular motility and resolution of diplopia, about 18 months aft er the initial presentation. Multiple extraocular muscle involvement by breast carcinoma metastasis is very rare and should be considered in the differential diagnosis, especially in patients with a prior history of breast carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular breast carcinoma metastasis to a superficial plexiform schwannoma as the first evidence of an occult breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Epigenetic silencing in non-neoplastic epithelia identifies E-cadherin (CDH1) as a target for the chemoprevention of lobular neoplasia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytosolic p120-catenin regulates growth of metastatic lobular carcinoma through Rock1-mediated anoikis resistance	Metastatic breast cancer is the major cause of cancer-related death among women in the Western world. Invasive carcinoma cells are able to counteract apoptotic signals in the absence of anchorage, enabling cell survival during invasion and dissemination. Although loss of E-cadherin is a cardinal event in the development and progression of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC), little is known about the underlying mechanisms that govern these processes. Using a mouse model of human ILC, we show here that cytosolic p120-catenin (p120) regulates tumor growth upon loss of E-cadherin through the induction of anoikis resistance. p120 conferred anchorage independence by indirect activation of Rho/Rock signaling through interaction and inhibition of myosin phosphatase Rho-interacting protein (Mrip), an antagonist of Rho/Rock function. Consistent with these data, primary human ILC samples expressed hallmarks of active Rock signaling, and Rock controlled the anoilcis resistance of human ILC cells. Thus, we have linked loss of E-cadherin an initiating event in ILC development - to Rho/Rock-mediated control of anchorage-independent survival. Because activation of Rho and Rock are strongly linked to cancer progression and are susceptible to pharmacological inhibition, these insights may have clinical implications for the development of tailor-made intervention strategies to better treat invasive and metastatic lobular breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical application of shear wave elastography (SWE) in the diagnosis of benign and malignant breast diseases	Shear wave elastography (SWE) is an emerging technique which can obtain quantitative elasticity values in breast disease. We therefore evaluated the diagnostic performance of SWE for the differentiation of breast masses compared with conventional ultrasound (US). Conventional US and SWE were performed by three experienced radiologists for 158 consecutive women who had been scheduled for US-guided core biopsy or surgical excision in 182 breast masses (89 malignancies and 93 benign; mean size, 1.76 cm). For each lesion, quantitative elasticity was measured in terms of the Young's modulus (in kilopascals, kPa) with SWE, and BI-RADS final categories were assessed with conventional US. The mean elasticity values were significantly higher in malignant masses (153.3 kPa +/- A 58.1) than in benign masses (46.1 kPa +/- A 42.9), (P < 0.0001). The average mean elasticity values of invasive ductal (157.5 +/- A 57.07) or invasive lobular (169.5 +/- A 61.06) carcinomas were higher than those of ductal carcinoma in situ (117.8 kPa +/- A 54.72). The average mean value was 49.58 +/- A 43.51 for fibroadenoma, 35.3 +/- A 31.2 for fibrocystic changes, 69.5 +/- A 63.2 for intraductal papilloma, and 149.5 +/- A 132.4 for adenosis or stromal fibrosis. The optimal cut-off value, yielding the maximal sum of sensitivity and specificity, was 80.17 kPa, and the sensitivity and specificity of SWE were 88.8% (79 of 89) and 84.9% (79 of 93). The area under the ROC curve (Az value) was 0.898 for conventional US, 0.932 for SWE, and 0.982 for combined data. In conclusion, there were significant differences in the elasticity values of benign and malignant masses as well as invasive and intraductal cancers with SWE. Our results suggest that SWE has the potential to aid in the differentiation of benign and malignant breast lesions.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histiocytoid breast carcinoma: an enigmatic lobular entity	Histiocytoid breast carcinoma is an uncommon entity that is mostly regarded as a variant of lobular carcinoma. Its occurrence with apocrine lobular carcinoma in situ and consistent expression of gross cystic disease fluid protein 15 suggest apocrine differentiation. Its recognition is often challenging, particularly when histiocytoid tumour cells occur in a metastatic site before the primary diagnosis of breast carcinoma, or in limited core biopsy or cytology material. In the breast, its bland histological appearances can lead to a benign diagnosis. Clues to the correct conclusion include finding tumour cells with more cytological atypia, the presence of cytoplasmic vacuoles and secretions, coexistence with more traditional invasive lobular carcinoma patterns and/or lobular neoplasia, and the use of immuohistochemistry to confirm their epithelial nature. Close clinicoradiological correlation and awareness of histological mimics are needed to achieve an accurate diagnosis of this enigmatic condition that should be appropriately subsumed within the invasive lobular histological subtype.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Occult breast carcinoma in breast reduction specimens in European women	Breast reduction is a common surgical procedure performed by plastic and oncoplastic breast surgeons. The authors report on the incidence and management of cancer and atypical hyperplasia in breast reduction specimens from one institution over a 10-year period. All patients who underwent breast reduction surgery at Northern General Hospital, Sheffield were identified from an electronic prospective database. The histopathology reports were analyzed. Case records of all patients with significant abnormalities were retrieved and examined to identify their management and follow-up. Between October 1999 and April 2010, 1,588 patients underwent breast reduction. Nine specimens showed atypical hyperplasia (0.57%). Five cancers were detected (0.31%). Four of the five patients had normal screening mammograms 1-3 years before the reduction operation. Of these cancers, four were invasive (three lobular, one ductal) (0.25%) and one was DCIS (0.06%). A lump was felt macroscopically by the pathologist in two of the four patients with invasive cancer. The patients with DCIS did not undergo further surgery, whereas those with invasive disease underwent mastectomy (three patients) and axillary nodal staging (four patients). None of the patients with normal post-reduction breast imaging had residual cancer on histology. The incidence of occult carcinoma in breast reduction specimens is low. Patients should be counseled with regards to the possible consequences preoperatively.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Audit: Histological Reports of Breast Lesions in Pathology Department of Komfo Anokye Teaching Hospital Kumasi, Ghana in 2010		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Thyroid transcription factor-1 expression in rare cases of mammary ductal carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Catechol estrogens as biomarkers for mammary gland cancer	The origin of human tumors has been attributed to the exposure to several environmental chemicals and implicated in the increase of incidence in breast cancer. Progression of breast cancer follows a complex multistep process that seems to depend on various exogenous and endogenous factors. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of the organophosphorous pesticide malathion in the presence of estrogen on neoplastic transformation of rat mammary glands. Virgin female rats were sacrificed after 30, 124 and 240 days of 5-day injections twice a day. There were four groups: i) control, ii) malathion (22 mg/100 g body weight, BW), iii) 17 beta-estradiol (30 mu g/100 g BW) and iv) combination of both. Progressive alterations in ducts were observed by the effect of malathion in comparison to control after 240 days. Ducts markedly increased in size and number of cells per square millimeter and tumors similar to ductal carcinoma were originated. The increase in number of proliferative ducts per square millimeter was significantly (P<0.05) higher in malathion-treated animals compared to the other groups. Progressive alterations in lobules with estrogen treatment were found after 240 days. Lobules became markedly abnormal, referred to as secretory lobules, increased in number and size and the tumors originated were similar to lobular carcinoma. The increase in number of secretory lobules was significantly (P<0.05) higher in estrogen-treated animals compared to the other groups. Treatment with the combination of malathion and estrogen gave rise to tumors constituted of both proliferative ducts and secretory lobules as well as formation of estrogen metabolites such as 2 and 4 catechol estrogens in the blood of the animals after 240 days. We concluded that morphological changes and alterations in the blood of the animals can be used as biomarkers for mammary gland cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	High-resolution analyses of gene copy number reveal new insights into the prognosis and progression of breast cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Exemestane for Breast-Cancer Prevention in Postmenopausal Women	BackgroundTamoxifen and raloxifene have limited patient acceptance for primary prevention of breast cancer. Aromatase inhibitors prevent more contralateral breast cancers and cause fewer side effects than tamoxifen in patients with early-stage breast cancer.MethodsIn a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial of exemestane designed to detect a 65% relative reduction in invasive breast cancer, eligible postmenopausal women 35 years of age or older had at least one of the following risk factors: 60 years of age or older; Gail 5-year risk score greater than 1.66% (chances in 100 of invasive breast cancer developing within 5 years); prior atypical ductal or lobular hyperplasia or lobular carcinoma in situ; or ductal carcinoma in situ with mastectomy. Toxic effects and health-related and menopause-specific qualities of life were measured.ResultsA total of 4560 women for whom the median age was 62.5 years and the median Gail risk score was 2.3% were randomly assigned to either exemestane or placebo. At a median follow-up of 35 months, 11 invasive breast cancers were detected in those given exemestane and in 32 of those given placebo, with a 65% relative reduction in the annual incidence of invasive breast cancer (0.19% vs. 0.55%; hazard ratio, 0.35; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.18 to 0.70; P = 0.002). The annual incidence of invasive plus noninvasive (ductal carcinoma in situ) breast cancers was 0.35% on exemestane and 0.77% on placebo (hazard ratio, 0.47; 95% CI, 0.27 to 0.79; P = 0.004). Adverse events occurred in 88% of the exemestane group and 85% of the placebo group (P = 0.003), with no significant differences between the two groups in terms of skeletal fractures, cardiovascular events, other cancers, or treatment-related deaths. Minimal quality-of-life differences were observed.ConclusionsExemestane significantly reduced invasive breast cancers in postmenopausal women who were at moderately increased risk for breast cancer. During a median follow-up period of 3 years, exemestane was associated with no serious toxic effects and only minimal changes in health-related quality of life.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Novel Automated Assay for the Rapid Identification of Metastatic Breast Carcinoma in Sentinel Lymph Nodes	BACKGROUND: The authors prospectively evaluated the performance of a proprietary molecular testing platform using one-step nucleic acid amplification (OSNA) for the detection of metastatic carcinoma in sentinel lymph nodes (SLNs) in a large multicenter trial and compared the OSNA results with the results from a detailed postoperative histopathologic evaluation (reference pathology) and from intraoperative imprint cytology (IC). METHODS: In total, 1044 SLN samples from 496 patients at 11 clinical sites were analyzed. Alternate 1-mm sections were subjected to either detailed histopathologic evaluation with hematoxylin and eosin and pancytokeratin immunostaining or the OSNA Breast Cancer System, which was calibrated to detect tumor deposits >0.2 mm by measuring cytokeratin 19 messenger RNA. At 7 sites, IC was performed before permanent section. The OSNA results were classified as negative (<250 copies/mu L), micrometastases (from >= 250 to <5000 copies/mu L), or macrometastases (>= 5000 copies/mu L). RESULTS: The sensitivity and specificity of the OSNA breast cancer system compared with reference pathology were 77.5% (95% confidence interval, 69.7%-84.2%) and 95.8% (95% confidence interval, 94.3%-97.0%), respectively, before discordant case analyses (DCA). Sensitivity and specificity after DCA were 82.7% and 97.7%, and final concordance was 95.8%. Performance for invasive lobular carcinoma demonstrated 88.2% sensitivity (95% confidence interval, 63.6%-98.5%) and 98.5% specificity (95% confidence interval, 92%-100%). The sensitivity of OSNA was significantly better than that of IC (80% vs 63%; P=.0229). CONCLUSIONS: The OSNA breast cancer system proved to be highly accurate for the detection of metastatic breast cancer in axillary SLNs. Sensitivity was comparable to that predicted for conventional postoperative histologic examination at 2-mm intervals and was significantly more sensitive than IC. Automation, semiquantitative results enabling the differentiation of macrometastasis and micrometastasis, and rapid results render the assay suitable for intraoperative and/or permanent evaluation of SLNs. Cancer 2011; 117: 2599-607. (C) 2011 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Validation of a minimal panel of antibodies for the diagnosis of malignant pleural mesothelioma	Aims: We previously established the use of a minimal panel of antibodies as sufficient to diagnose most epithelial malignant mesothelioma (MPM). We aimed to validate this approach and investigate the utility of a D2-40 antibody.Methods: A series of 80 MPM patients selected for surgery and 21 consecutive patients with pleural metastatic carcinoma were included. A minimal panel of antibodies, consisting of calretinin, BG8 and CD15, and D2-40 was investigated.Results: There were 61 epithelial and 19 biphasic MPM as well as 12 metastatic lung, six breast (5 ductal adenocarcinomas, 1 mixed ductal/lobular adenocarcinoma), two serous papillary ovarian carcinomas and one moderately differentiated colorectal adenocarcinoma. The sensitivity of positive calretinin labelling to confirm the diagnosis of MPM was 97.5%, while the 'diagnostic sensitivities' of lack of labelling for BG8 and CD15 were 91.3% and 97.5%, respectively. The use of calretinin, BG8 and CD15 resulted in correct classification in 97.5% of all MPMs. All MPM cases investigated showed at least focal positive D2-40 labelling.Conclusions: We have validated the usefulness of a minimal panel of antibodies with calretinin, BG8 and CD15 as the initial step to the diagnosis of MPM. D2-40 emerged as a helpful diagnostic tool for cases where our initial approach failed to conclusively diagnose MPM.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE PROGNOSTIC RELEVANCE OF SERUM CA27.29 IN PRIMARY BREAST CANCER PATIENTS BEFORE ADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY-RESULTS OF THE GERMAN SUCCESS TRIAL		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Mammary-specific inactivation of E-cadherin and p53 impairs functional gland development and leads to pleomorphic invasive lobular carcinoma in mice	Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women of the Western world. Even though a large percentage of breast cancer patients show pathological complete remission after standard treatment regimes, approximately 30-40% are non-responsive and ultimately develop metastatic disease. To generate a good preclinical model of invasive breast cancer, we have taken a tissue-specific approach to somatically inactivate p53 and E-cadherin, the cardinal cell-cell adhesion receptor that is strongly associated with tumor invasiveness. In breast cancer, E-cadherin is found mutated or otherwise functionally silenced in invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC), which accounts for 10-15% of all breast cancers. We show that mammary-specific stochastic inactivation of conditional E-cadherin and p53 results in impaired mammary gland function during pregnancy through the induction of anoikis resistance of mammary epithelium, resulting in loss of epithelial organization and a dysfunctional mammary gland. Moreover, combined inactivation of E-cadherin and p53 induced lactation-independent development of invasive and metastatic mammary carcinomas, which showed strong resemblance to human pleomorphic ILC. Dissemination patterns of mouse ILC mimic the human malignancy, showing metastasis to the gastrointestinal tract, peritoneum, lung, lymph nodes and bone. Our results confirm that loss of E-cadherin contributes to both mammary tumor initiation and metastasis, and establish a preclinical mouse model of human ILC that can be used for the development of novel intervention strategies to treat invasive breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Late Age at First Full Term Birth Is Strongly Associated With Lobular Breast Cancer	BACKGROUND: Late age at first full-term birth and nulliparity are known to increase breast cancer risk. The frequency of these risk factors has increased in recent decades. METHODS: The purpose of this population-based case-control study was to examine associations between parity, age at first birth (AFB), and specific histological subtypes of breast cancer. Women with breast cancer were identified from cancer registries in Wisconsin, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. Control subjects were randomly selected from population lists. Interviews collected information on reproductive histories and other risk factors. Logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) of ductal, lobular, and mixed ductal-lobular breast cancer diagnosis in association with AFB and nulliparity. RESULTS: AFB >= 30 years was associated with a 2.4-fold increase in risk of lobular breast cancer compared with AFB < 20 years (OR, 2.4; 95% CI, 1.9-2.9). The association was less pronounced for ductal breast cancer (OR, 1.3; 95% CI, 1.2-1.4). Nulliparity was associated with increased risk for all breast cancer subtypes, compared with women with AFB < 20 years, but the association was stronger for lobular (OR, 1.7; 95% CI, 1.3-2.2) than for ductal (OR, 1.2; 95% CI, 1.1-1.3) subtypes (P = .004). The adverse effects of later AFB was stronger with obesity (P = .03) in lobular, but not ductal, breast cancer. CONCLUSIONS: Stronger associations observed for late AFB and nulliparity suggest that these factors preferentially stimulate growth of lobular breast carcinomas. Recent temporal changes in reproductive patterns and rates of obesity may impact the histological presentation of breast cancer. Cancer 2011;117:1946-56. (C) 2010 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A novel role for FGFR in breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of CDH1 mutations in patients with lobular carcinoma with and without a family history of gastric cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The transient receptor potential V6 (TRPV6) calcium channel in breast cancer cell lines and clinical breast cancer tissues		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Effect of Delay in Fixation, Different Fixatives, and Duration of Fixation in Estrogen and Progesterone Receptor Results in Breast Carcinoma	Accurate determination of estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) status in breast carcinoma is essential. Preanalytic variation may contribute to discordant results. Recently, American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO)/College of American Pathologists (CAP) made recommendations to normalize fixation for breast biomarkers. To evaluate this, a 4-cm invasive lobular carcinoma was processed according to ASCO/CA.P guidelines. The remainder was stored fresh at 4 degrees C for 4 days and cut into biopsy-sized pieces. Each was fixed in 10% formalin, Pen-Fix (Richard-Allan Scientific, Kalamazoo, MI), Bouin solution, Sakura Molecular Fixative (Sakura Tissue-Tek Xpress, Torrance, CA), zinc formalin, or 15% formaldehyde for tunes ranging between I and 168 hours. Immunohistochemical studies for ER and PR were performed and interpreted. After 4 days at 4 degrees C, all samples showed no degradation or ER/PR staining differences, except 2 Bouin-fixed samples, in comparison with the patient's sample processed according to ASCO/CAP guidelines. in our study, the preanalytic variables of fixative type, fixation time, and 4 days of ischemic time did not affect immunohistochemical accuracy for ER/PR.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Needle Core Biopsy Diagnosis of Papillary Carcinoma - Implications of a B5c Categorisation		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Core Biopsy Predictors for Positive Retroareolar Tissue in Nipple-Sparing Surgery for Breast Malignancy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnosis of breast cancer during pregnancy: A five year experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast sentinel lymph node analysis intraoperative with OSNA (One step Nucleic Acid Amplification) to avoid second surgery for axillary lymph node dissection		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Triple negative breast cancer: Experience of the Clinic of Oncology, Clinical Center Nis during a 3-year period (2007-2009)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer in the 3rd decade Korean young ladies		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neoadjuvant use of endocrine therapy in elderly patients with estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer: Series of a general hospital		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Estrogen receptors, progesterone receptors, and nuclear size in Libyan female breast cancer: Correlation with clinical features and survival		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Adjuvant therapies for special types of breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Nottingham Grades of Lobular Carcinoma Lack the Prognostic Implications They Bear for Ductal Carcinoma	Background. Invasive lobular cancer (L) differs clinically and morphologically from invasive ductal cancer (D); differences notwithstanding, Nottingham grades are provided in both. This study compared 22,719 lobular carcinomas with 201,517 ductal carcinomas, dividing them into the grades: well differentiated (W), moderately differentiated (M), poorly differentiated (P), and ungraded to see if differences between comparable grades of lobular and ductal cancer were uniform, consistent with the notion the grading system provides similar information for both cancer subtypes.Methods. The Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) database was used to limn relationships among grades, as respects proportions of patients with T3 tumors and nodal metastases, as well as cancer-specific survival. Taken into account were age, estrogen and progesterone receptor status, and the administration of radiotherapy.Results. More lobular than ductal carcinomas were T3; grades were not homogenous, with the incidence rate ratio (IRR) comparing lobular and ductal carcinomas being 8.2 for well differentiated, 4.1 for moderately differentiated, and 2.48 for poorly differentiated. With respect to nodal metastases, the 1.16 W L: W D IRR (P < 0.05) was not explicable by chance, but both the 0.97 M L: M D IRR (P > 0.05) and the 0.96 P L: P D IRR (P > 0.05) could have been due to chance. As respects survival, neither the 1.4 P L: P D time ratio (TR) (P < 0.05) nor the 1.23 M L: M D TR (P < 0.05) could have been explained by chance; the 1.05 W L: W D (P > 0.05) might have been due to chance.Conclusion. Grades of lobular carcinoma imply different meanings than do grades of ductal carcinoma. Studies of breast cancer should not assume commonality with respect to grade. (C) 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Down-Regulation of Proliferation and Cell Adhesion and Up-Regulation of Cell Migration Associated Genes in Lobular Breast Carcinomas.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Evaluation of the Breast Biomarkers in Multifocal/Multicentric Breast Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Utility of pVHL, Maspin, S100P and IMP3 in Diagnosis of Carcinomas from Various Organs.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of Napsin A in Carcinomas from Various Organs.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Visualization of the tumor microenvironment that drives invasion of mammary tumors cells		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Visualization of the tumor microenvironment that drives invasion of mammary tumor cells		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pathologic Evaluation of Nipple-Areolar Complex Sparing Mastectomy Specimens.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Intraoperative Frozen Section Diagnosis of Sentinel Lymph Node Biopsy Reevaluated.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Impact of Additional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)-Guided Biopsies in Management of Breast Cancer Patients Initially Diagnosed by Non-MRI (Ultrasound/Stereotactic) Modalities.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Aurora A Kinase (AURKA) Expression and Clinical Outcome in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Mucinous Breast Carcinomas Lack PIK3CA/AKT Pathway Mutations		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Reevaluation of Expression of Estrogen Receptor (ER), Progesterone Receptor (PR), GCDFP-15 and Mammaglobin in Carcinomas from Various Organs.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Diagnostic Utility of the "Minimal Carcinoma (MC)Triple Stain" in Breast Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic Accuracy of Ductal Carcinoma In Situ: Results of Eastern Cooperative Oncology Trial 5194		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Simulation Based Medical Education (SBME) in Breast Fine Needle Aspiration (FNA) Cytopathology as a Means of Quality Improvement		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Assessment Tools of Baseline and Expert Levels of Pathologist and Trainee Competence in Diagnostic Breast Cytology		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PAX-8 Expression in Gynecologic and Breast Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Tissue Imaging with Light Coherence Tomography: A Pilot Study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Brachytherapy Based Accelerated Partial Breast Irradiation: A Patterns of Care Analysis with ASTRO Consensus Statement Groupings		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	APBI using Once Daily Fractionation: Analysis of 312 Cases with Four Years Median Follow-up		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Mature Follow-up Low-dose Rate Interstitial Brachytherapy (LDR) following Ipsilateral Breast Tumor Recurrence (IBTR) In Patients Initially Treated with Breast Conservation Therapy: The Allegheny General Hospital Experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic significance of claudin expression changes in breast cancer with regional lymph node metastasis	Adherent and tight junction molecules have been described to contribute to carcinogenesis and tumor progression. Additionally, the group of claudin-low tumors have recently been identified as a molecular subgroup of breast carcinoma. In our study, we examined the expression pattern of claudins, beta-catenin and E-cadherin in invasive ductal (IDCs) and lobular (ILCs) carcinomas and their corresponding lymph node metastases (LNMs). Tissue microarrays of 97 breast samples (60 invasive ductal carcinomas, 37 invasive lobular carcinomas) and their corresponding LNMs have been analyzed immunohistochemically for claudin-1, -2, -3, -4, -5, -7, beta-catenin and E-cadherin expression. The stained slides were digitalized with a slide scanner and the reactions were evaluated semiquantitatively. When compared to LNMs, in the IDC group beta-catenin and claudin-2, -3, -4 and -7 protein expression showed different pattern while claudin-1, -2, -3, -4 and -7 were differently expressed in the ILC group. Lymph node metastases developed a notable increase of claudin-5 expression in both groups. Decrease or loss of claudin-1 and expression of claudin-4 in lymph node metastases correlated with reduced disease-free survival in our patients. According to our observations, the expression of epithelial junctional molecules, especially claudins, is different in primary breast carcinomas compared to their lymph node metastases as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry. Loss of claudin junctional molecules might contribute to tumor progression, and certain claudin expression pattern might be of prognostic relevance.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Long-term cultures of stem/progenitor cells from lobular and ductal breast carcinomas under non-adherent conditions	A small subpopulation of stem/progenitor cells can give rise to the diversity of differentiated cells that comprise the bulk of the tumor. Are proliferating cells, within the bulk of tumor, few cells with uncommon features? The cell biological approach provides a limitless model for studying the hierarchical organization of progenitor subpopulation and identifying potential therapeutic targets. Aim of the study was to expand patients' breast cancer cells for evaluating functional cell properties, and to characterize the protein expression profile of selected cells to be compared with that of primary tumors. Breast cancer cells from estrogen receptor (ER alpha) positive, HER2 negative lobular (LoBS cells) and ductal (DuBS cells) histotype were cultured under non-adherent conditions to form mammospheres. Sorting of the cells by their surface expression of CD24 and CD44 gave rise to subpopulations which were propagated, enriched and characterized for the expression of epithelial and stromal markers. We found that non-adherent culture conditions generate mammospheres of slowly proliferating cells; single cells, dissociated from mammospheres, grow in soft agar; long-term cultured LoBS and DuBS cells, CD44+/CD24low, express cytokeratin 5 (CK5), alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-sma) and vimentin, known as markers of basal/myoepithelial cells; and ER alpha (only DuBS cells), HER1 (EGF-Receptor), activated HER2, and cyclinD1 as markers of luminal epithelial cell. Isolates of cells from breast cancer patients may be a tool for a marker-driven testing of targeted therapies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma of the breast metastasizing to leiomyoma in a patient under letrozole treatment	Metastasis of extragenital neoplasms to the uterus is extremely rare. Lobular breast cancers metastasize to the uterus more than ductal carcinomas, but they metastasize as tiny nodules that can be missed with the standard diagnostic workup. Uterine involvement by a metastatic tumor is usually a manifestation of end-stage disease; patients are reported to die within weeks to months. Therefore surgery is not recommended. Here we report a case of lobular breast cancer metastasizing to a leiomyoma in a patient using letrozole. Our patient was submitted to surgery because the leiomyoma had grown to the level of the xiphoid process. She is alive one year after the operation. In conclusion growth of leiomyomas under aromatase inhibitors should be considered as a sign of metastases and surgery can be planned in selected cases.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Mitochondrial UCP4 and bcl-2 expression in imprints of breast carcinomas: Relationship with DNA ploidy and classical prognostic factors	Mitochondria are the bioenergetic and metabolic centers of cells and play an important role in the regulation of cell death. The mitochondrial apoptosis pathway is controlled by the bcl-2 protein family. Overexpression of mitochondrial uncoupling protein 4 (UCP4) can promote proliferation and inhibit apoptosis and differentiation. Imprint smears obtained from 124 tumors were studied immunocytochemically, and results were correlated with prognostic markers. There were 112 ductal and 12 lobular carcinomas. The positivity of UCP4 was correlated with lymph node metastases (p = 0.005), positive ER and PR expression (p < 0.0001 for both), as well as positivity for p53 (p < 0.0001) and Ki-67 (p < 0.0001). Decreased expression of bcl-2 correlated with increased expression of UCP4 (p = 0.001). Regarding DNA ploidy, UCP4 positivity was correlated with aneuploid tumors (p = 0.002). Negative expression of bcl-2 was correlated with poorly differentiated carcinomas (p < 0.0001), as well as with positive expression of p53 (p < 0.0001) and Ki-67 (p < 0.0001). Logistic regression revealed that ploidy and p53 expression had an impact on UCP4. These findings encourage future investigations regarding the potential role of UCPs not only into mechanisms underlying breast cancer, but also as a novel candidate to the design and development of more effective therapeutic strategies. (C) 2011 Published by Elsevier GmbH.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Progression of Pre-invasive to Invasive Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE ASSOCIATION OF BREAST CANCER AND OBSTRUCTIVE SLEEP APNEA		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Detection and treatment of lobular carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Micropapillary Carcinoma (IMPC) of the Breast: An Uncommon but Aggressive Special Type of Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Phase II Trial of Presurgical Treatment with Trastuzumab (H) or Lapatinib (Ty) or the Combination of Trastuzumab and Lapatinib (H plus Ty), Followed by Six Cycles of Docetaxel (T) and Carboplatin (C) with Trastuzumab (TCH) or Lapatinib (TCTy) or the Combination of Trastuzumab and Lapatinib (TCHTy) in Patients with HER2+Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Incidence of Mammographically-Occult Breast Cancer in Women Older than Seventy Years		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in Lobular and Ductal Carcinoma: Comparison of Clinical, Pathological Response Rates and Survival		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical Implications of pN0 mol+ in Breast Cancer Patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Contralateral Prophylactic Mastectomy: Clinical and Pathological Features of Women Treated at the University of Louisville		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Reduction Mammoplasty and Incidence of Occult Carcinoma. A 10 Year Experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PTEN Protein Expression in Postmenopausal Steroid Receptor Positive Early Breast Cancer Patients Treated with Adjuvant Tamoxifen		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Response of Invasive Lobular Cancers to Neoadjuvant Therapy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Utility of 18F-Fluoro-Deoxyglucose EmisiOn Tomography/Computed and Sentinel Node Biopsy for Axillary Staging in Primary Breast Cancer. Roffo PET/CT 1 Trial		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CT Simulation Alone Appears To Be Appropriate for Pre-Operative Partial Breast Radiation		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Flat Epithelial Atypia of the Breast on Core Needle Biopsies - To Re-Excise or Not		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical Impacts of Histological Subtyping Primary Breast Cancer	Background: Treatment decisions in breast cancer depend on TNM classification and the assessment of additional variables with have an impact on survival. We examined whether histological subtyping breast cancer as either ductal or lobular is related to disease outcome. Patients and Methods: We examined a large data base of 14198 breast cancer patients. Results: Histological sub-classification of invasive breast cancer as either ductal or lobular is not correlated with disease outcome. However, the data further showed that invasive lobular carcinomas have a higher probability of being oestrogen receptor (ER)and progesterone receptor (PR)-positive and a lower probability of being c-erbB2-positive. They also showed a higher average age at the time of diagnosis in comparison with invasive ductal carcinoma. Local recurrence rates were lower in invasive lobular carcinoma in comparison with invasive ductal carcinoma (3.5% vs. 6.2%; p=0.031). The multivariable Cox regression analysis showed that ER, PR, nodal status, grade and tumour size predicted disease outcome with statistical significance, while the histological subtype (invasive ductal or lobular) was not a significant predictor of disease outcome. Conclusion: Histological sub-classification of invasive breast cancer as either ductal or lobular is not correlated with disease outcome. On the other hand our data gives some indication that lobular and ductal breast cancer appear to be different biological entities.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast lesions with ultrasound imaging-histologic discordance at 16-gauge core needle biopsy: Can re-biopsy with 10-gauge vacuum-assisted system get definitive diagnosis?	The aim of this study was to evaluate if re-biopsy with 10-gauge vacuum-assisted biopsy (VAB) could get definitive diagnosis for breast lesions with ultrasound (US) imaging-histologic discordance at 16-gauge core needle biopsy (CNB).From January 2007 to June 2008, a consecutive biopsy was performed on 1069 lesions with US-guided 16-gauge CNB. A total of 28 lesions were considered to be US imaging-histologic discordant and all of them underwent subsequent 10-gauge VAB. All malignant lesions located at VAB were treated with subsequent surgery and all benign lesions at VAB were followed up for at least 1 year.Six of the 28 lesions (21.4%) had pathologic upgrade after VAB. In them, one case upgraded from adenosis to ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS); one case upgraded from adenosis to infiltrating ductal carcinoma (IDC); one case upgraded from atypical ductal hyperplasia to IDC; two cases upgraded from intraductal papilloma to DCIS; and one case upgraded from sclerosing adenosis to invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC). The subsequent surgery further demonstrated the diagnosis of VAB for all the lesions with histologic upgrade.Re-biopsy could improve diagnostic accuracy in patients with breast lesions showing imaging-histologic discordance during CNB, and 10-gauge VAB was a valuable method to deal with re-biopsy. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of HAb18G is associated with tumor progression and prognosis of breast carcinoma	HAb18G is a recently identified hepatoma-associated antigen and its association with tumor growth, invasion, and angiogenesis has been studied in a variety of tumors. However, its role in the tumor progression of breast cancer has not been explored. HAb18G expression was examined by immunohistochemistry in pathological sections of 1,637 breast tissue samples and by in situ hybridization in 41 cases of invasive breast carcinomas (BC). While not detected in any cases of tumor-like conditions or benign tumors of breast, and only rarely in normal tissue (4.4%), HAb18G expression was gradually up-regulated from atypical ductal hyperplasia (27.3%), to ductal carcinoma-in situ (59.8%), and to BC (61.4%) (P < 0.01). Its expression in BC was correlated positively with C-erbB-2 expression and histologic grade (P < 0.001), and negatively with the expression of estrogen and progesterone receptors (P < 0.001). Significant differences of expression were also identified among the subgroups of BC examined: in decreasing order from invasive micropapillary carcinoma, ductal carcinoma, lobular carcinoma, papillary carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, to mucinous adenocarcinoma (P = 0.001), corresponding to their known clinical aggressiveness. In an expanded group of 186 BC patients with proper follow up, our previous findings were confirmed: HAb18G expression was significantly associated with local recurrence, distant metastasis and tumor mortality (P < 0.01). We also demonstrated that up-regulated tumor expression of HAb18G was a significant predictor of reduced disease progression-free survival rate and a shorter overall survival, independent of systemic therapies. In conclusion, this study suggests that HAb18G expression is associated with BC progression and prognosis. Further evaluation of this new marker in breast cancer is indicated.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Utility of Oncotype DX Risk Estimates in Clinically Intermediate Risk Hormone Receptor-Positive, HER2-Normal, Grade II, Lymph Node-Negative Breast Cancers	BACKGROUND: Oncotype DX breast cancer assay (Genomic Health, Redwood City, Calif) stratifies patients with early breast cancer according to risk of distant recurrence. The authors hypothesized that the test is ordered when clinicopathological variables yield equivocal risk estimates. The current study also showed how often the test clarifies clinically ambiguous risk status. METHODS: The authors examined clinical/pathological characteristics and calculated risk of recurrence with Adjuvantl for 309 consecutive patients who underwent Oncotype DX testing at M. D. Anderson Cancer Center. RESULTS: Of the patients comprising this study, most had stage I/II (n = 306, 99%) and grade I/II tumors (n = 236, 76%). The median risk of recurrence by Adjuvantl was 16% (IQR 11.2 to 20.4). Oncotype DX stratified 52% (n = 160), 40% (n = 122) and 9% (n = 27) of this clinically intermediate risk population into low, intermediate, and high risk groups, respectively. Correlation between projected risk of recurrence by Adjuvantl (Adjuvantl, online software and website) and Oncotype DX was minimal (r = 0.13). Recurrence score (P < .0001), but not age or tumor size, was higher in patients who received adjuvant chemotherapy. In all 3 grade subsets, recurrence score was higher in those who received chemotherapy compared with those who did not (P = .02, P < .0001, and P = .0009, respectively). All lobular carcinomas (n = 40) were classified as low/intermediate risk. CONCLUSIONS: Oncotype DX yielded potentially informative risk assignments in patients considered indeterminate risk by routine clinical variables. However, 40% of the time test results reflected intermediate risk, with widely used recurrence score thresholds. This proportion increased to 66% using revised thresholds implemented by National Cancer Institute's Trial Assigning IndividuaLized Options for Treatment (Rx), or TAILORx. Cancer 2010;116:5161-7. (c) 2010 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular neoplasia: frequency and association with other breast lesions		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Modified Alcian Blue Enhances the Intraoperative Diagnosis of Sentinel Lymph Node Metastasis in Invasive Lobular Carcinoma A Prospective Study	Context.-The sensitivity of an intraoperative diagnosis of sentinel lymph node metastasis of invasive lobular carcinoma using conventional staining is low.Objective.-To develop a fast, modified, Alcian blue stain to decrease the intraoperative false-negative results in testing for metastatic invasive lobular carcinoma.Design.-Modified Alcian blue was optimized. Patients who had invasive lobular carcinoma on needle biopsy were candidates for this study. Touch preparations from every sentinel lymph node were prospectively prepared in the same manner, one stained with modified Alcian blue and one with conventional staining. These slides were independently interpreted.Results.-A total of 121 sentinel lymph nodes from 31 patients with invasive lobular carcinoma were studied. There were 11 patients (35.5%) who had at least one positive lymph node test result. There were a total of 18 positive lymph node results (14.9%). Although 10 sentinel lymph nodes with abnormalities were detected in 7 patients with conventional staining, modified Alcian blue detected 15 sentinel lymph node abnormalities in 10 patients. Modified Alcian blue increased the sensitivity compared with conventional staining from 63.6% to 90.9% (calculated based on the number of patients) and from 55.6% to 83.3% (calculated based on number of sentinel lymph nodes). The staining process takes approximately 11 minutes.Conclusions.-Modified Alcian blue stain is a relatively rapid, cheap, highly sensitive, and specific method of detecting metastatic invasive lobular carcinoma. This method can be used in conjunction with conventional staining methods used intraoperatively. (Arch Pathol Lab Med. 2010;134:1513-1519)	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Accurate classification of sentinel lymph node metastases in patients with lobular breast carcinoma	Among pathologists there is low reproducibility in classifying small volume metastases in sentinel lymph node particularly in cases of invasive lobular carcinoma. We postulate that strict adherence to American Joint Commission on Cancer (AJCC) 2003 criteria may result in inaccurate staging of lobular carcinoma patients. We reviewed cases of metastatic lobular carcinoma in sentinel lymph node biopsies between 1998 and 2008. All sentinel lymph nodes were reassessed using strict adherence to AJCC 2003 criteria. Subsequent axillary lymph node dissection and clinical follow-up were reviewed. Fifty-one patients met our inclusion criteria and were originally classified by the primary pathologist as follows: 10 isolated tumor cells, 8 micrometastases, 27 macrometastases, and 6 'positive' cases without further classification. Cases were re-classified using strict adherence to AJCC 2003 criteria as follows: 21 isolated tumor cells, 2 micrometastases, and 28 macrometastases. Twelve isolated tumor cells cases underwent full axillary dissection, and 3 (25%) had additional macrometastases. All micrometastatic cases underwent axillary dissection: all were negative. Twenty-two macrometastatic cases underwent full axillary dissection and 16 (73%) had additional macrometastases. Diffuse single cells or small clusters should not be interpreted as isolated tumor cells in invasive lobular carcinoma sentinel lymph nodes. The criteria for assessing small volume metastases in the sentinel lymph node of patients with invasive lobular carcinoma need to be more clearly defined. (C) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of the Trefoil Protein TFF3 in Human Breast Cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Aberrant E-Cadherin Expression in Lobular Breast Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The PTEN gene in triple negative breast cancer	The paper gives the results of studying the expression of the PTEN gene product by an immunohistochemical method as well as deletion of the gene by fluorescence in situ hybridization in the tumor cells of 80 patients with triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) The gene product was absent in the tumor cell nuclei in 56 products The bulk of the remaining patients who showed a positive response had lobular carcinomas or tumors with an unidentified microscopic variant due to secondary posttherapeutic changes Lobular carcinomas in a control group presented by patients without TNBC also contained the PTEN gene product Therefore all positively responding tumor cells failed to express basaloid markers and androgen receptors The immunohistochemically detectable absence of the PTEN gene product is usually coupled with deletion at locus 10q23 however in several cases the negative immuno histochemical reaction is associated with no deletion at the above locus which suggests that there are mechanisms for PTEN gene dysregulation other than deletion in TNBC The presence of the PTEN gene product in the tumor cells is associated with good prognosis in patients with TNBC	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Alcohol Consumption and Risk of Postmenopausal Breast Cancer by Subtype: The Women's Health Initiative Observational Study	Background Alcohol consumption is a well-established risk factor for breast cancer. This association is thought to be largely hormonally driven, so alcohol use may be more strongly associated with hormonally sensitive breast cancers. Few studies have evaluated how alcohol-related risk varies by breast cancer subtype.Methods We assessed the relationship between self-reported alcohol consumption and postmenopausal breast cancer risk among 87 724 women in the Women's Health Initiative Observational Study prospective cohort from 1993 through 1998. Multivariable adjusted Cox regression models were used to calculate hazard ratios (HRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). All statistical tests were two-sided.Results A total of 2944 invasive breast cancer patients were diagnosed during follow-up through September 15, 2005. In multivariable adjusted analyses, alcohol consumption was positively related to risk of invasive breast cancer overall, invasive lobular carcinoma, and hormone receptor-positive tumors (all P-trend <= .022). However, alcohol consumption was more strongly related to risk of certain types of invasive breast cancer compared with others. Compared with never drinkers, women who consumed seven or more alcoholic beverages per week had an almost twofold increased risk of hormone receptor-positive invasive lobular carcinoma (HR = 1.82; 95% CI = 1.18 to 2.81) but not a statistically significant increased risk of hormone receptor-positive invasive ductal carcinoma (HR = 1.14; 95% CI = 0.87 to 1.50; difference in HRs per drink per day among current drinkers = 1.15; 95% CI = 1.01 to 1.32, P = .042). The absolute rates of hormone receptor-positive lobular cancer among never drinkers and current drinkers were, 5.2 and 8.5 per 10 000 person-years, respectively, whereas for hormne receptor-positive ductal cancer they were 15.2 and 17.9 per 10 000 person-years, respectively.Conclusions Alcohol use may be more strongly associated with risk of hormone-sensitive breast cancers than hormone-insensitive subtypes, suggesting distinct etiologic pathways for these two breast cancer subtypes.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE PROGNOSTIC RELEVANCE OF SERUM CA27.29 LEVEL IN PRIMARY BREAST CANCER PATIENTS BEFORE ADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY-RESULTS OF THE GERMAN SUCCESS TRIAL		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast lesions mimicking malignancy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Subtyping estrogen receptor-positive breast carcinomas by routinely used immunohistochemical reactions		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Significance of E-cadherin expression in triple-negative breast cancer	PURPOSE: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), a subtype of breast cancer that is oestrogen receptor (ER) negative, progesterone receptor (PR) negative, and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2) negative, has a poor prognosis. Although a correlation between E-cadherin expression level and outcome has been demonstrated among all types of breast cancer, little is known about the significance of E-cadherin expression levels in TNBC.METHODS: A total of 574 patients who had undergone a resection of a primary breast cancer except for invasive lobular carcinomas were enrolled in this study. Expressions of ER, PR, HER2, and E-cadherin were assessed by immunohistochemistry. We examined the association between TNBC and other clinicopathological variables and evaluated the significance of the E-cadherin expression.RESULTS: Among the 574 breast cancer cases, 123 (21.4%) revealed a triple-negative phenotype. Patients with TNBC experienced more frequent lymph node metastasis (P=0.024) and a poorer prognosis (P<0.001) in comparison with non-TNBC patients. Triple-negative breast cancer was an independent prognostic factor. Reduced levels of E-cadherin were observed in 238 (41.5%) of the 574 breast cancer cases. E-cadherin reduction was significantly frequent in cases of TNBC (P<0.001) and lymph node metastasis (P=0.032). Furthermore, in the 123 TNBC cases, the prognosis of patients with an E-cadherin-negative expression was significantly worse than that of E-cadherin-positive patients (P=0.0265), especially for those in clinical stage II (P=0.002). A multivariate logistic regression analysis showed a reduction of the E-cadherin expression to be an independent prognostic factor (P=0.046).CONCLUSION: E-cadherin expression may be a useful prognostic marker for classifying subgroups of TNBC. British Journal of Cancer (2010) 103, 249-255. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6605735 www.bjcancer.com Published online 15 June 2010 (C) 2010 Cancer Research UK	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Risk of Mortality by Histologic Type of Breast Cancer in the United States	There are several histologic types of breast cancer that beyond their histopathologic differences have distinct clinical characteristics. However, it is unclear how histology is related to risk of mortality particularly when differences in hormone receptor status, tumor size, and nodal status are incorporated. This study utilized a cohort of 319,463 breast cancer patients >= 30 years of age diagnosed from 1992 to 2007 identified from 17 population-based cancer registries that participate in the Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results Program. Multivariate adjusted risks of mortality associated with seven breast cancer histologic subtypes were estimated using Cox regression. Mucinous, tubular, and medullary carcinomas were associated with 31-79% lower risks of mortality compared to ductal carcinoma. Inflammatory breast cancer was associated with a 50-53% increased risk of mortality depending on age. While lobular carcinomas carried the same risk of mortality as ductal carcinoma among women 30-49 years of age, among women >= 50 years of age with node-negative disease lobular carcinoma was associated with an 11% reduced risk of mortality, but among those with node-positive disease it was associated with a 10% increased risk of mortality. This study confirms that mucinous, tubular, and medullary carcinomas have a more favorable prognosis compared to ductal carcinoma, and that inflammatory carcinoma has a poorer prognosis. Though many of these histologic subtypes are quite rare, consideration of the mortality risk associated with a given subtype may be clinically useful when making decisions regarding treatment and follow-up.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of metalloproteases and their inhibitors in different histological types of breast cancer	Metalloproteases (MMPs) and their tissue inhibitors of metalloproteases (TIMPs) are involved in several key aspects of tumoral growth, invasion and metastasis. The purpose of this study was to characterize on how the different histological types of breast cancer differ in the expression of several components of this enzymatic system.An immunohistochemical study was performed in 50 ductal, 23 lobular, 14 mucinous, 7 tubular, 4 papillary and 5 medullary invasive carcinomas, using tissue arrays and specific antibodies against 7 MMPs and 3 tisullar TIMPs. Staining results were categorized by means of a specific software program (score values).Carcinomas of the ductal type showed higher score values for MMPs and TIMPs than the other histological types; whereas mucinous carcinomas had lower scores values for expressions of the majority of these proteins. Stromal fibroblasts were more frequently positive for MMP-1, -7 and -13 and TIMP-1 and -3, when present in carcinomas of the ductal type than in other histological types of breast carcinomas. Stromal mononuclear inflammatory cells were more frequently positive for MMP-1 and TIMP-3, but more often negative for MMP-7, -9 and -11, when located in carcinomas of the ductal type than in other histological types of breast carcinomas.We found variations in MMP/TIMP expressions among the different histological subtypes of breast carcinomas suggesting differences in their tumor pathophysiology.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Synthesis of Tumor-Avid Photosensitizer-Gd(III)DTPA Conjugates: Impact of the Number of Gadolinium Units in T-1/T-2 Relaxivity, Intracellular localization, and Photosensitizing Efficacy	To develop novel bifunctional agents for tumor imaging (MR) and photodynamic therapy (PDT), certain tumor-avid photosensitizers derived from chlorophyll-a were conjugated with variable number of Gd(III)aminobenzyl DTPA moieties. All the conjugates containing three or six gadolinium units showed significant T-1 and T-2 relaxivities. However, as a bifunctional agent, the 3-(1'-hexyloxyethyl)pyropheophorbide-a (HPPH) containing 3Gd(III) aminophenyl DTPA was most promising with possible applications in tumor-imaging and PDT. Compared to HPPH, the corresponding 3- and 6Gd(III)aminobenzyl DTPA conjugates exhibited similar electronic absorption characteristics with a slightly decreased intensity of the absorption band at 660 nm. However, compared to HPPH, the excitation of the broad "Soret" band (near 400 nm) of the corresponding 3Gd(III)aminobenzyl-DTPA analogues showed a significant decrease in the fluorescence intensity at 667 nm.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) Biosciences manufactures anticytokeratin CAM5.2, not CK8/18 monoclonal antibody - Author's Reply		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BD (Becton, Dickinson and Company) Biosciences manufactures anticytokeratin CAM5.2, not CK8/18 monoclonal antibody		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Stathmin expression in breast cancer patients treated with anti-tubulin drugs	Objective: Stathmin is a protein that inhibits microtubule assembly and is over expressed in highly aggressive and tubulin-drug resistant breast cancers. This study examines stathmin expression in breast cancers from patients treated with anti-tubulin chemotherapy.Methods: We reviewed breast cancers from 44 women enrolled in a randomized trial of neoadjuvant doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide +/- docetaxel, including 39 with invasive ductal carcinoma and 5 with invasive lobular carcinoma. Microarray blocks were constructed from pre- and posttreatment tissues and assayed for stathmin by IHC. Analyses of the stained slides were performed using Aperio Scanscope CS/GL (R) and TMALab (R) software. Tissues were evaluated for % staining of strong positive cells, with 4% used as a cut-off value for high vs. low expression.Results: The percentage of strong positive staining of stathmin in invasive ductal carcinomas ranged from 0.5% to 62% with mean 14.4%. Invasive lobular carcinomas had significantly less strong positive stathmin staining, from 0.07% to 3.3% (p = 0.00016, Student's t-test, two-tailed). Comparison of the recurrences in high vs. low stathmin was 47% to 21%. There was no correlation with survival or response to chemotherapy.Conclusion: Invasive lobular carcinomas had lower intensity stathmin expression than ductal carcinomas. Stathmin expression tended to be higher in tumors that recurred.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	SOX2: profiling a new group of breast cancer patients with poor prognosis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Loss of heterozygosity at chromosome 3p in ductal and lobular breast carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cancer stem cells and lymph node metastasis in early stage breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ERIC/MAPK regulation of ERR gamma in Tamoxifen resistant breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of COUP transcription factors in Tamoxifen resistant breast cancer cells		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Chemoprevention of breast cancer by tamoxifen and raloxifene: the US-experience in NSABP-prevention trials		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast units: The need for a structured network		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oncoplastic surgery: Classification and quadrant per quadrant atlas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of lymphovascular invasion in breast biopsy specimens		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Distinct pathological characteristics of lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Special aspects of local treatment for invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Outcome of invasive lobular carcinoma compared to infiltrating ductal carcinoma: a population based study from British Columbia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular cancer is different, but its surgical management is changing over time: analysis of an institutional database over a 10-year period		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Role of MRI in the pre-operative evaluation of invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Primary breast cancer phenotype associated with propensity for leptomeningeal metastases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Sensitivity of integral computer-aided detection (CAD) with full-field digital mammography (FFDM) for detection of breast cancer according to different histopathological types and appearance		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of clinicopathologic characteristics between breast cancer patients above and under age of 40		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Bilateral intraductal papillomas arising in ectopic axillary breast tissue synchronously with right breast intraductal carcinoma	This study describes a case of 45-year-old woman with a mass developed in the right breast. Physical examination revealed a 3 cm painless mass in the right breast as well as diffuse bulge in both axillary regions, though no significant lymphadenopathy was evident. Mammogram and ultrasound examination were carried out and showed malignant mass in the right breast and ectopic breast tissue in both axillae with multiple intraductal papillomas. Both mammographic and sonographic appearances of these lesions are described and discussed. The purpose of this study is to highlight the importance of occurrence of bilateral ectopic axillary breast with intraduccal papilloma synchronously with right breast malignant mass and emphasize the importance of thorough mammographic and sonographic examination of the axilla in detecting such pathology.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A novel germline CHEK2 deletion truncating the kinase domain identified in a French family with high-risk of breast/ovarian cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Impact of Decalcification on Receptor Status in Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular Neoplasia on Breast Core Biopsy: Is Routine Excision Indicated? A Study of 353 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Atypical Lobular Hyperplasia in Surgical Margins and Needle Biopsies: A Clinicopathological Study in One Institute		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Demographics and Tumor Characteristics of Breast Cancer in Young Women: Evidence of Racial Disparity		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Vascular Lesions of the Breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Significance of Lobular Carcinoma In Situ at Margins of Breast Conservation Specimens		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic Spectrum of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Detected Suspicious Lesions and Its Clinical Impact in Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer Patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Upgrade Rates of Lobular Neoplasia on Core Needle Biopsy: Should Atypical Lobular Hyperplasia Be Routinely Excised?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lipocalin-2/NGAL Expression Is Associated with Clinical Outcome in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ER plus PR- Breast Carcinomas Are More Frequently Associated with Older Patients, Larger Tumors and HER2 Positive Tumors		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Molecular Underpinning of Lobular Histological Growth Pattern: A Genome-Wide Transcriptomic Analysis of Invasive Lobular Carcinomas and Grade- and Molecular Subtype-Matched Invasive Ductal Carcinomas of No Special Type		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Utility of PAX8 in Patients with Both Breast and Mullerian Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A New Morphological and Genetic Map for the Evolutionary Pathway of Low Nuclear Grade Breast Neoplasia (LNGBN) Family		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	P75/P63; a Novel Immunohistochemical Cocktail Which Is Diagnostically Superior to P63 for the Evaluation of Myoepithelial Cells in Challenging Breast Lesions		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Impact of Decalcification on Receptor Status in Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular Neoplasia on Breast Core Biopsy: Is Routine Excision Indicated? A Study of 353 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Do True Mixed Invasive Ductal and Lobular Carcinomas of the Breast Exist?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Estrogen Receptor (ER) and Progesterone Receptor (PR) Immunohistochemistry (IHC) Results in Breast Carcinoma Using Varying Fixation Times in Different Fixatives		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathologic Characteristics and Molecular Subtypes of Breast Cancers in Young Women		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic Factors in Triple Negative Breast Carcinomas: Is Sub-Classification Using Basal Markers Warranted?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cross-Sectional Study of Breast Cancer among Hispanic Women Living in the United States		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic Spectrum of Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) Detected Suspicious Lesions and Its Clinical Impact in Newly Diagnosed Breast Cancer Patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	TMEPAI Gene Amplification in Triple Negative Breast Cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lipocalin-2/NGAL Expression Is Associated with Clinical Outcome in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Molecular Underpinning of Lobular Histological Growth Pattern: A Genome-Wide Transcriptomic Analysis of Invasive Lobular Carcinomas and Grade- and Molecular Subtype-Matched Invasive Ductal Carcinomas of No Special Type		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Tumor Size, Nuclear Grade and HER2 Positivity Predict Lymph Node Metastasis in Breast Carcinomas That Have Lymphovascular Invasion		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Utility of PAX8 in Patients with Both Breast and Mullerian Carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Mammaglobin Expression in Primary Ovarian Carcinoma and Its Utility in the Differential Diagnosis of Metastatic Mammary Carcinoma to Ovary		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lymphovascular Tumor Emboli Recapitulate an In Vitro Mammosphere Stem Cell Phenotype		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of Twist, E-cadherin and N-cadherin in breast carcinoma and their clinical significance	Objective To investigate the expression of Twist, E-cadherin and N-cadherin in breast carcinoma tissue and to analyse their effects on the breast carcinoma differentiation, size, infiltration and metastasis of the breast carcinoma. Methods The expression of Twist, E-cadherin and N-cadherin in 56 cases of breast invasive ductal carcinoma,38 cases of invasive lobular carcinoma,41 cases of carcinoma in situ and 10 cases of normal breast tissue was detected using immunohistochemistry. Results (1) The expression rate of Twist in three types of breast carcinoma was 46.4% (26/56) 79.0% (30/38) and 26.8% (11/41) respectively, and the expression of Twist in invasive lobular carcinoma was significantly higher than that in invasive ductal carcinoma and carcinoma in situ (P = 0.002, P = 0.000). The expression rate of E-cadherin in three types of breast carcinoma was 78.6% (44/56) 29.0% (11/38) and 80.5% (33/41) respectively, and the expression of E-cadherin in invasive ductal carcinoma and carcinoma in situ was significantly higher than that in invasive lobular carcinoma (P = 0.000, P = 0.000). The expression rate of N-cadherin in three types of breast carcinoma was 53.6% (30/56) 68.4% (26/38) and 31.7% (13/41) respectively, and the expression of N-cadherin in invasive ductal carcinoma and invasive lobular carcinoma was significantly higher than that in carcinoma in situ (P = 0.033, P = 0.001). (2) In all the 135 cases, the expression of Twist was not correlated with that of E-cadherin P = 0.005, Spearman correlation coefficient = -0.239), however, there was a positive correlation between the expression of Twist and N-cadherin and statistically significant (P = 0.000, Spearman correlation coefficient = 0.319). (3) In the invasive ductal carcinoma, the expression of N-cadherin in poorly-differentiated carcinoma was significantly higher than that of the moderately-or well-differentiated ones (P = 0.004). ( 4) In the invasive lobular carcinoma, the expression of Twist in cases with lymph node metastasis was significantly higher than that of cases without metastasis (P = 0.037). Conclusions Twist, E-cadherin and N-cadherin have different expression patterns in the three kinds of breast carcinoma. The positive expression of Twist was correlated to lymph node metastasis in invasive lobular carcinoma and the positive expression of N-cadherin was correlated to cell the tissue differentiation in invasive ductal carcinoma. Detection of the expression of these biomarkers may provide a valuable reference for the study of breast carcinoma progression, metastasis and for the judgment of the biological behavior of the carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Does size matter? Comparison study between MRI, gross, and microscopic tumor sizes in breast cancer in lumpectomy specimens	Size of breast cancer is essential in staging cancer to determine type and extent of patient management. This study was conducted to assess accuracy in estimating tumor size by MRI and gross using microscopy as gold standard. A retrospective study was done on 33 patients, 30-75 years, who underwent MRI of breasts with subsequent lumpectomy, 2002-2006, for invasive breast cancer. Size of lesion(s) on MRI and gross were compared with histological size. Of 37 lesions, 27 (73%) were invasive ductal (IDC) and 10 (27%) invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC). Tumor size by MRI matched histological size in 3%, underestimated 27%, and overestimated 70% of cases. Tumor size by gross matched histological size in 22%, underestimated 57%, and overestimated 22% of cases. MRI as an imaging modality and gross pathology both have significant limitations in measuring tumor size particularly in cases of invasive breast carcinoma. Random sectioning of lumpectomy specimen in invasive breast carcinoma may result in inaccurate staging of tumor by leading to false impression of tumor size and multi-focality and/or multi-centricity of tumor particularly in cases of ILC. Microscopic measurements of tumor size are necessary for accurate T-staging and recommended for appropriate patient management.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The impact of preoperative breast MRI on the re-excision rate in invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast	Re-excision rates after breast conserving surgery (BCS) of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) are high. Preoperative breast MRI has the potential to reduce re-excision rates, but may lead to an increased rate of mastectomies. Hence, we assessed the influence of preoperative breast MRI on the re-excision rate and the rate of mastectomies. We performed a retrospective cohort study of a consecutive series of patients with ILC who presented in one of two dedicated tertiary cancer centers between 1993 and 2005. We assessed the initial type of surgery (BCS or mastectomy), the re-excision rate and the final type of surgery. Patients were stratified into two groups: those who received preoperative MRI (MR+ group) and those who did not (MR- group). In the MR- group, 27% of the patients underwent a re-excision after initial BCS. In the MR+ group, this rate was significantly lower at 9%. The odds ratio was 3.64 (95% CI: 1.30-10.20, P = 0.010). There was a trend towards a lower final mastectomy rate in the MR+ group compared to the MR- group (48 vs. 59%, P = 0.098). In conclusion, preoperative MRI in patients with ILC can reduce re-excision rates without increasing the rate of mastectomies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The molecular underpinning of lobular histological growth pattern: a genome-wide transcriptomic analysis of invasive lobular carcinomas and grade- and molecular subtype-matched invasive ductal carcinomas of no special type	Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is the most frequent special type of breast cancer. The majority of these tumours are of low histological grade, express hormone receptors, and lack HER2 expression. The pleomorphic variant of ILCs (PLCs) is characterized by atypical cells with pleomorphic nuclei and is reported to have an aggressive clinical behaviour. Expression profiling studies have demonstrated that classic ILCs preferentially display a luminal phenotype, whereas PLCs may be of luminal, HER2 or molecular apocrine subtypes. The aims of this study were two-fold: to determine the transcriptomic characteristics of lobular carcinomas and to define the genome-wide transcriptomic differences between classic ILCs and PLCs. To define the transcriptomic characteristics of ILCs, minimizing the impact of histological grade and molecular subtype on the analysis, we subjected a series of grade- and molecular subtype-matched ILCs and invasive ductal carcinomas (IDCs) to genome-wide gene expression profiling using oligonucleotide microarrays. Hierarchical clustering analysis demonstrated that ILCs formed a separate cluster and a supervised analysis revealed that 5.8% of the transcriptionally regulated genes were significantly differentially expressed in ILCs compared to grade- and molecular subtype-matched IDCs. ILCs displayed down-regulation of E-cadherin and of genes related to actin cytoskeleton remodelling. protein ubiquitin, DNA repair, cell adhesion, TGF-beta signalling; and up-regulation of transcription factors/immediate early genes, lipid/prostaglandin biosynthesis genes, and cell migration-associated genes. Supervised analysis of classic ILCs and PLCs demonstrated that less than 0.1% of genes were significantly differentially expressed between these tumour subtypes. Our results demonstrate that ILCs differ from grade- and molecular subtype-matched IDCs in the expression of genes related to cell adhesion, cell-to-cell signalling, and actin cytoskeleton signalling. However, classic ILCs and PLCs are remarkably similar at the molecular level and should be considered as part of a spectrum of lesions. Copyright (C) 2009 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Multifocal matrix-producing mammary carcinoma mimicking lobular carcinoma on core biopsy - A case with long survival reported	We report the clinico-pathologic features of a patient with extensive multifocal matrix-producing mammary carcinoma which mimicked invasive pleomorphic lobular carcinoma on biopsy Neoplastic cells both in areas with and without matrix were positive for EMA and vimentin Cytokeratin antibodies were negative, and there was no immunoreactivity for ER. PR, HER2, CD10. GCDF15, p63, or E-cadherin. The proliferative activity was low (< 5%) in areas both with and without matrix production Despite significant tumor volume and high-grade histologic features, an 8-year follow-up has been uneventful (C) 2010 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cancer Size, Histotype, and Cellular Grade May Limit the Success of Fine-Needle Aspiration Cytology for Screen-Detected Breast Carcinoma	BACKGROUND: Fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) was adopted as the first-line method to assess breast lesions in the Verona Breast Cancer Screening Program. The radiological and pathological factors relating to the success of FNAC in breast cancer series were evaluated. METHODS: Between July 1999 and June 2004, 418 breast cancers were submitted to FNAC in the Verona Breast Cancer Screening Program. The results of FNAC diagnoses were compared with final histology. The FNAC sensitivity rate, underestimation of malignancy rate, and inadequacy rate were correlated with histotype, size, grading, and radiologic imaging. RESULTS: Of the 418 cancers, 95 were in situ, and 323 were invasive. The sensitivity rate was higher in invasive cancers (P < .001), and the underestimation of malignancy rate was greater in in situ cancers (P = .002). Lobular type cancers had a lower sensitivity rate in invasive and in situ cancers. The sensitivity rate was 100% in medullary, mucinous, and papillary cancers, and no case had inadequate sampling. The underestimation of malignancy rate was higher in tubular carcinoma (18.2%); lobular carcinoma showed a higher inadequacy rate (10.4%). The sensitivity rate was lower and the underestimation of malignancy rate was higher in low-grade carcinomas and in lesions <1 cm (P < .001). The performance of FNAC was not significantly influenced by mammographic imaging of lesions. CONCLUSIONS: Low-grade cancer histotype, cancer size <1 cm, and lobular and tubular histotypes limit the possibility of obtaining positive results by FNAC. Operator experience and multidisciplinary consultation may help in overcoming these limitations. Pathologists must be aware of the limits of FNAC; results must be critically evaluated in light of the triple assessment. Cancer (Cancer Cytopathol) 2009;117:491-9. (C) 2009 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Biomarkers ER, PR, HER-2 En Topoisomerase II alpha in Correlation with Response to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy for Primary Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Outcome of Invasive Lobular Carcinoma Compared to Infiltrating Ductal Carcinoma: A Population Based Study from British Columbia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Biological Subtypes and Risk of Second Primary Breast Cancer in Inflammatory Breast Cancer - Population Based Analysis from the California Cancer Registry		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular Biomarkers of Columnar Cell Lesions Identified by Proteomic Approaches		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinoma: Imaging Characteristics, Size at Presentation and Bilaterality.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Amplification of the Prolactin Receptor Gene in Mammary Lobular Neoplasia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Role of FDG PET for Early Prediction of Response after Two Cycles of Epirubicin plus Cyclophosphamide Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical Benefits of Multidetector-Row Computed Tomography for Detecting Contralateral Breast Cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Everything You Always Wanted To Know about Core Wash Cytology in a Same-Day Breast Clinic (star) but Were Afraid To Ask		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Interaction between Family History of Breast Cancer and the Remaining Gail Risk Factors		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Newly Proposed Semi-Automated Method of Grading Invasive Lobular Carcinoma: A Unifying Concept and Correlation with Prognostic Markers and Patient Survival	Invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) of the breast is currently graded according to the Nottingham modification of the Scarff-Bloom-Richardson system (SBR). This system involves subjective evaluation of 3 morphologic features: tubule formation, nuclear pleomorphisrn, and mitosis. Our recently proposed semi-automated Nuclear and Proliferation Index [N+P] grading system for IDC has demonstrated agreement among grades and prognostic markers with better prediction of patient survival than the SBR system. Our present objective is to expand the utilization of the N+P system to grading invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC). Fifty-eight ILC cases were evaluated by the SBR and N+P systems. The 2 systems were compared in terms of correlation with patient survival, tumor size, grade, angiolymphatic invasion, lymph node status, ploidy status, and ER, PR, Her-2, p53, EGFR, and Bcl-2 staining. The N+P and SBR systems demonstrated overall agreement when correlated with clinical and prognostic parameters. Twenty-four of 30 tumors initially classified as SBR Grade II were down-graded to N+P I. Three of 26 tumors initially classified as SBR Grade I were up-graded to N+P II. Grading of ILC provides valuable predictive and prognostic information. The N+P grading system for ILC decreases the element of subjectivity for assessing mitotic activity and appears to be superior to the SBR system in predicting patient survival.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MMP13 is potentially a new tumor marker for breast cancer diagnosis	Within the past decade, the incidence of breast cancer in Taiwan has been rising year after year. Breast cancer is the first most prevalent cancer and the fourth leading cause of cancer-related deaths among women in Taiwan. The early stage of breast cancer not only have a wider range of therapeutic options, but also obtain a higher success rate of therapy than those with advanced breast cancer. A test for tumor markers is the most convenient method to screen for breast cancer. However, the tumor markers currently available for breast cancer detection include carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), carbohydrate antigen 15.3 (CA15.3), and carbohydrate antigen 27.29 (CA27.29) exhibited certain limitations. Poor sensitivity and specificity greatly limits the diagnostic accuracy of these markers. This study aims to identify potential tumor markers for breast cancer. At first, we analyzed genes expression in infiltrating lobular carcinoma, metaplastic carcinoma, and infiltrating ductal carcinoma of paired specimens (tumor and normal tissue) from breast cancer patients using microarray technology. We selected 371 overexpressed genes in all of the three cell type. In advanced breast cancer tissue, we detected four genes MMP13, CAMP, COL10A1 and FLJ25416 from 25 overexpressed genes which encoded secretion protein more specifically for breast cancer than other genes. After validation with 15 pairs of breast cancer tissue and paired to normal adjacent tissues by membrane array and quantitative RT-PCR, we found MMP13 was 100% overexpressed and confirmed to be a secreted protein by Western blot analysis of the cell culture medium. The expression level of MMP13 was also measured by immunohistochemical staining. We suggest that MMP13 is a highly overexpressed secretion protein in breast cancer tissue. It has potential to be a new tumor marker for breast cancer diagnosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Ranitidine-induced Hepatitis: A Rare Cause of Hepatotoxicity		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Should the use of contralateral prophylactic mastectomy be increasing as it is?	Recent studies have shown a dramatic increase in the use of contralateral prophylactic mastectomy (CPM). The choice of surgical procedure is primarily influenced by the recommendations of physicians and surgeons. As smaller breast cancers are detected by improved breast screening, and larger breast cancers are reduced in size by neo-adjuvant chemo- and endocrine therapy, breast conservation therapy (BCT) has been applicable to more women. No one would advocate CPM with the breast primary was to be treated by BCT. This makes the more than doubling of the rate of CPM even harder to understand.The ability to better define inherited breast cancer risk by genetic analysis of BRCA1 or 2 mutations does identify a group of patients at greatly increased lifetime risk of contralateral breast cancer (CBC). This segment of the population does not account for the sharp increase in CPM. It appears that many physicians and surgeons believe the risk of contralateral breast cancer to be sufficiently high to justify advising CPM. This risk is often overestimated by both healthcare providers and patients. The case for additional surgery should involve considerations of risk versus benefit, mortality being the principal patient concern and morbidity secondary. Yet there is some morbidity in adding a second mastectomy, and no evidence of mortality benefit.Invasive lobular carcinoma is considered by some physicians to represent an increased risk of contralateral cancer, but that has not proved to be correct. Women with lobular carcinoma in situ or atypical ductal hyperplasia found at the time of their cancer diagnosis are sometimes advised to consider CPM. Treatment with tamoxifen has shown a 50-75% reduction in risk from these tissue findings. Chemotherapy for the primary breast cancer also lowers contralateral risk by about 20%. Symmetry is another reason some have recommended CPM. Reduction can be performed rather than mastectomy, if required. The use of skin-sparing mastectomy has greatly reduced the incidence of any surgery needed for symmetry on the contralateral breast.MRI used to "stage the breast" can raise questions by noting small foci of enhancement in the contralateral breast. Some women elect CPM rather than biopsy or further imaging of the contralateral breast.The case can be made that CPM should be on the decline. Its increase raises questions of the awareness of breast oncologists, medical and surgical, of the true risk data. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Relationship between menopausal hormone therapy and risk of ductal, lobular, and ductal-lobular breast carcinomas. (vol 17, pg 43, 2008)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A Note from History: Lobular Carcinoma In Situ		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lack of prognostic significance of "classic" lobular breast carcinoma: a matched, single institution series	Whether invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast per se constitutes a prognostically favorable type has been debated. The present series comprises 301 consecutive "classic" lobular breast carcinomas seen at one institution between 1994 and 2001, compared to an equal number of invasive ductal carcinomas at the same institution during the same period, matched for year of surgery, age, menopausal status, primary tumor size, nodal involvement, hormone receptor status and where possible histological grade. Despite matching, the lobular carcinomas were more frequently multifocal, had more involved nodes, lower grade and lower proliferative fraction. There was no significant difference in disease-free or overall survival, locoregional relapse or time to distant metastasis between the lobular and ductal groups overall or within any examined subset, though the lobular group showed a trend to earlier appearance of contralateral breast cancer. Classical lobular histology is not an independent factor in the prognosis of early breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma: Preliminary study of the efficacy of a blood based gene expression test for early detection of breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Excision of primary tumour improves survival in metastatic breast cancer patients		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The effects of E-Cadherin and bcl-2 on prognosis in patients with breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Predictive factors of response to neoadjuvant 3-weekly epirubicin (EPI) plus docetaxel (DOC) chemotherapy (CT) in locally advanced breast cancer (LABC): a prospective phase II trial		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical validation of an array CGH test for HER2 status in breast cancer reveals that polysomy 17 is a rare event	The HER2 gene is an important prognostic and therapeutic marker in newly diagnosed breast cancer. Currently, HER2 status is most frequently determined by immunohistochemical detection of HER2 protein expression on the cellular membrane surface or by fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of HER2 gene copy number in fixed tissue using locus-specific probes for the HER2 gene and chromosome 17 centromere. However, these methods are problematic because of issues with intra- and inter-laboratory reproducibility and preanalytic variables, such as fixation time. In addition, the commonly used HER2/chromosome 17 ratio presumes that chromosome 17 polysomy is present when the centromere is amplified, even though analysis of the rest of the chromosome is not included in the assay. In this study, 97 frozen samples of invasive lobular and invasive ductal carcinoma, with known immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization results for HER2, were analyzed by comparative genomic hybridization to a commercially available bacterial artificial chromosome whole-genome array containing 99 probes targeted to chromosome 17 and the HER2/TOP2 amplicon. Results were 97% concordant for HER2 status, meeting the College of American Pathologists/American Society of Clinical Oncology's validation requirements for HER2 testing. Surprisingly, not a single case of complete polysomy 17 was detected even though multiple breast cancer cases showed clear polysomies of other chromosomes. We conclude that array comparative genomic hybridization is an accurate and objective DNA-based alternative for clinical evaluation of HER2 gene copy number, and that polysomy 17 is a rare event in breast cancer. Modern Pathology (2009) 22, 1169-1175; doi: 10.1038/modpathol.2009.78; published online 15 May 2009	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Peritoneal disease in breast cancer: A specific entity with an extremely poor prognosis	Background: Peritoneal metastases are now a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with advanced breast cancer. There are few published data regarding the prognosis, clinical characteristics and management of individuals with peritoneal metastases from breast cancer.Methods: The electronic database at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust (Charing Cross Hospital) was searched for the terms 'breast', 'cancer' or 'tumour', 'peritoneal' and 'ascites' from 2000 to 2008. Those with confirmed peritoneal disease from breast cancer, as described on ultrasound or staging CT reports with a clinico-pathologic confirmed diagnosis, were included.Results: A total of 1628 patients were screened and initially 168 patients were identified. A subsequent total of 44 individuals (2.7% of the cohort) were defined as having breast cancer with peritoneal secondaries and were included in the analysis. Of these, the majority (77%) had invasive ductal carcinomas (IDCs). While the median survival from the diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer measured 20.5 months (range 0.1-125 months), the median survival of patients with peritoneal disease was 1.56 months (range 0.2-27 months).Conclusions: These data demonstrate that the median survival of patients with peritoneal breast cancer metastasis is surprisingly poor, with only a minority surviving more than 6 months. A specific association with invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) was not observed. The dismal outcome of these individuals, despite further active therapy, merits their inclusion into clinical trials designed specifically for this group of patients. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oncotype DX (R) in invasive lobular carcinoma: scores are higher in the pleomorphic variant versus the classical variant		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Two cases of mucinous breast carcinoma in patients younger than 60 years old		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Analysis of the Human Cancer Glycome Identifies a Novel Group of Tumor-Associated N-Acetylglucosamine Glycan Antigens	The cell surface is covered by a dense layer of protein- and lipid-linked glycans. Although it has been known that distinct glycan structures are associated with cancer, the whole spectrum of cancer-associated glycans has remained undiscovered. In the present study, we analyzed the protein-linked cancer glycome by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometric glycan profiling of cancer patient tissue samples. In lung cancer, we detected accumulation of a novel group of tumor-associated glycans. These protein-linked glycans carried abnormal nonreducing terminal beta-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine (GlcNAc) residues. A similar phenomenon was also detected in structural analyses of tumor-derived glycosphingolipids. This showed that glycan biosynthesis may dramatically change in cancer and that direct glycome analysis can detect the resulting marker glycans. Based on the structural knowledge, we further devised a covalent labeling technique for the detection of GlcNAc-expressing tumors with a specific transferase enzyme. In normal tissues, terminal GlcNAc antigens are capped by galactosylation. Similarly to common cancer-associated glycan antigens T, Tn, and sialyl-Tn, the newly discovered GlcNAc antigens result from incomplete glycosylation. In conclusion, the identified terminal GlcNAc glycans should be recognized as a novel class of tumor markers. [Cancer Res 2009;69(14):5811-9]	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Factors predicting in-breast tumor recurrence after breast-conserving surgery	Purpose: The main objectives of this study were to identify risk factors for local in-breast tumor recurrence after breast-conservation and to evaluate the impact of IBTR (in-breast tumor recurrence) on overall survival. Methods: A total of 335 consecutive patients with 346 invasive and in situ breast cancers were treated with breast conserving therapy. Univariate and multivariate statistical analysis were performed and survival rates were calculated and analyzed using the Kaplan-Meier method. Results: With a median follow-up period of 70.6 months 14 patients (4%) developed an IBTR. Overall survival and the disease-free 8-year actuarial survival of patients were 95% and 93%, respectively. The overall survival of patients with tumour recurrence on any site was significantly shorter than of those without recurrence (64% versus 85% after 8 years of follow-up; P < 0.0001). Similarly, overall survival was significantly reduced in patients with distant metastases compared to all others without distant disease (88% versus 40% after 8 years; P < 0.0001). In contrast, overall survival of patients who experienced IBTR did not differ significantly from the group of patients who never developed IBTR (87% versus 70% after 8 years of follow-up). By univariate analysis, lobular carcinoma, high grade tumours, multifocality, concomitant LCIS and DCIS, the absence of estrogene and progesterone receptor status, as well as R1-status, were significant predictors of IBTR. By multivariate analysis, only R1-status (P < 0.002) and the presence of LCIS around the invasive tumour (P < 0.03) remained as significant factors predicting IBTR. Conclusions: Concomitant lobular carcinomas in situ, as well as R1 surgical status are independent significant risk factors for in breast tumor recurrence after breast conserving therapy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Infiltrating duct carcinoma within a fibroadenoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Overexpression of WWP1 is associated with the estrogen receptor and insulin-like growth factor receptor 1 in breast carcinoma	WWP1, a HECT type E3 ubiquitin ligase frequently amplified and overexpressed in breast cancer, has the potential to become a useful clinical biomarker and therapeutic target in breast cancer. Here, we performed immunohistochemical staining in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue sections from 187 cases of primary invasive mammary carcinoma [137 ductal carcinomas (IDC) and 50 lobular carcinomas (ILC)] by using a monoclonal anti-WWP1 antibody. The normal breast epithelium and adjacent benign epithelium are essentially negative for WWP1. Cytoplasmic WWP1 immunoreactivity was observed in 76/187 (40.6%) tumors and showed a positive correlation with ER alpha (p = 0.05) and IGF-1R proteins (p = 0.001) in this cohort. The positive correlations between WWP1 and ER/IGF-1R were also observed in a panel of 12 breast cancer cell lines I)v Western blot. Interestingly, the ER levels are decreased when WWP1 is silenced in ER positive MCF7 and T47D breast cancer cell lines. Finally, WWP1 ablation collectively inhibits cell proliferation with tamoxifen in MCF7 and T47D, as measured by H-3-thymidine incorporation assays. These findings suggest that WWP1 may play an important role in ER positive breast cancer. (C) 2009 UICC	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Changing Incidence of In situ and Invasive Ductal and Lobular Breast Carcinomas: United States, 1999-2004	Background: National incidence rates for lobular and ductal breast cancers have not been available previously. Evidence suggests that the increased risk of breast cancer associated with combined hormone replacement therapy use is higher for invasive lobular cancers (ILC) than for invasive ductal cancers (IDC). This study provides U.S. incidence rates for these histologic types for both in situ and invasive cancers and assesses changes in the incidence of these cancers over time.Methods: Data for this study included incident ductal and lobular breast cancer cases diagnosed from 1999 through 2004 in central cancer registries in 44 states and the District of Columbia from the National Program of Cancer Registries and the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program. We estimated incidence per 100,000 women by 10-year age groups, race, and ethnicity. We also assessed the percent change in invasive and in situ cancer incidence over time.Results: We observed distinct differences in the change of incidence over time between in situ and invasive lobular and ductal breast cancers. The age-adjusted rates of ILC and IDC declined an average of 4.6% and 3.3% per year, respectively. Overall, ILC decreased 20.5% from 1999 to 2004. The patterns of ductal and lobular in situ cancer incidence were not consistent over time, and the total change was negligible.Conclusion: The declines in ILC observed in our study are consistent with a decrease in cancer incidence related to a reduced use of combined hormone replacement therapy. However, other factors could also be responsible for these changes. (Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2009;18(6):1763-9)	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Epigenetic silencing in non-neoplastic epithelia identifies E-cadherin (CDH1) as a target for chemoprevention of lobular neoplasia	Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) of the breast is believed to develop from in situ lesions, atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH), and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS). Down-regulation of the cell-cell adhesion protein E-cadherin is a defining feature of lobular breast cancer (LBC) and already occurs in ALH and LCIS. Apart from mutational mechanisms, epigenetic silencing of the E-cadherin gene (CDH1) is thought to be involved in E-cadherin down-regulation and has been observed at a high frequency in ILC. Whether CDH1 promoter methylation is already present in in situ lesions and thus contributes to the initiation of LBC is not established. We thus examined microdissected archived tissue from 20 LBCs by methylation-specific PCR to determine the CDH1 methylation status of lobular lesions. Nineteen of the 20 LBCs had a hypermethylated CDH1 promoter, including 13/14 ILCs and 13/13 ALHs or LCIS. Bisulphite sequencing indicated that methylation was complete within the investigated promoter fragment. Intriguingly, CDH1 methylation was likewise present in 8/8 adjacent non-neoplastic epithelia, but not in 6/6 mammary epithelia from healthy subjects. E-cadherin protein and mRNA were down-regulated in in situ lesions relative to adjacent epithelia. Together, these results indicate that CDH1 promoter methylation occurs in LBC prior to E-cadherin down-regulation and neoplastic formation. We thus propose that epigenetic silencing represents the first of the two hits required to silence both CDH1 alleles for LBC to develop. Because promoter methylation is in principle reversible, our findings suggest that chemoprevention of LBC by epigenetic drugs should be feasible. Furthermore, the presence of CDH1 methylation in pre-neoplastic epithelia suggests the existence of mammary regions with increased disease susceptibility, providing an explanation for the often multifocal presentation of LBC. Copyright (c) 2009 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Preoperative Breast Magnetic Resonance Imaging in Early Breast Cancer	BACKGROUND: Accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI) of patients with early breast cancer is being investigated on a multi-institutional protocol National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project (NSABP) B-39/RTOG 0413. Breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is more sensitive than mammography (MG) and may aid in selection of patients appropriate for PBI. METHODS: Patients with newly diagnosed breast cancer or ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) routinely undergo contrast-enhanced, bilateral breast MRI at the Cleveland Clinic. We retrospectively reviewed the medical records of all early-stage breast cancer patients who had a breast MRI, MG, and surgical pathology data at our institution between June of 2005 and December of 2006. Any suspicious lesions identified on MRI were further evaluated by targeted ultrasound biopsy. RESULTS: A total of 260 patients met eligibility criteria for NSABP B-39/RTOG 0413 by MG, physical exam, and surgical pathology. The median age was 57 years. DCIS was present in 63 patients, and invasive breast cancer was found in 197 patients. MRI identified suspicious lesions in 35 ipsilateral breasts (13%) and in 16 contralateral breasts (6%). Mammographically occult, synchronous ipsilateral foci were found by MRI in 11 patients (4.2%), and in the contralateral breast in 4 patients (1.5%). By univariate analysis, lobular histology (infiltrating lobular carcinoma [ILC]), pathologic T2, and American Joint Committee on Cancer stage 11 were significantly associated with additional ipsilateral disease. Of patients with ILC histology, 18% had ipsilateral secondary cancers or DCIS, compared with 3% in the remainder of histologic subtypes (P = .004). No patient older than 70 years had synchronous cancers or DCIS detected by MRI. CONCLUSIONS: Breast MRI identified synchronous mammographically occult foci in 5.8% of early breast cancer patients who would otherwise be candidates for APBI. Cancer 2009;115:1621-30. (C) 2009 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparative Genomic Hybridization-Based Oncogenetic Tree Model for Genetic Classification of Breast Cancer	OBJECTIVE: To describe a genetic progression pathway in breast cancer by a maximum likelihood-based tree model representing the dependencies between chromosomal imbalances.STUDY DESIGN: One hundred six cases were studied by comparative genomic hybridization, followed by maximum likelihood estimation of an oncogenetic tree model.RESULTS: The tree model identified 3 clusters with correlated chromosomal imbalances. The first cluster included losses at 4q, 5q, 6q, 9p, 13q and a gain at 17q; the second cluster included gains at 1q, 8q, 16p and 20q; the third cluster included losses at 8p, 11q, 16q and 18q. The imbalances nearest the root of the tree were the loss at 13q (cluster 1), the gain at 1q (cluster 2) and the loss at 18q (cluster 3), reflecting an early change in breast cancer evolution. Cox regression analysis revealed the tumor stage and the grade as relevant for overall survival (p = 0.001) and the tumor stage, the grade and the loss at 16q as relevant for disease-free survival (p = 0.001).CONCLUSION: Methods like oncogenetic tree analysis provide insights into the genetic progression of breast cancer and may extract relevant markers detected by screening methods like comparative genomic hybridization for further studies. (Anal Quant Cytol Histol 2009;31:101-108)	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical expression of glycodelin in breast cancer correlates with estrogen-receptor alpha and progesterone-receptor A positivity	Glycodelin (Gd), previously known as placental protein 14 (PP 14), acts as an immunosuppressive glycoprotein by suppressing the cytolytic capacity of human natural killer (NK) cells and T-cells in vitro. Glycodelin is expressed in normal glandular epithelium of the endometrium as well as in normal and malignant glandular cells in and outside of the reproductive tract. Recently, Gd expression was demonstrated in normal and cancerous human breast tissue.Paraffin-embedded breast cancer tissue blocks (n=121) were examined for Gd expression. No part of the specimens contained carcinoma in situ.Gd expression was present in lobular and ductal breast carcinoma. We observed expression of Gd in breast cancer independent of grading. With regard to nodal status, no significant differences in the expression of Gd between cancer tissue from patients with or without axillary lymph node metastases were present. However, Gd expression was found to be significantly higher in breast cancer tissue when the staining reaction for steroid receptors was also positive.These results implicate that Gd might be an additional marker for the differentiation of breast cancer tissue. To which extent Gd could serve as an additional indicator for breast cancer survival is part of our ongoing research.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ERR gamma/AP1 signaling drives cholesterol production and Tamoxifen resistance in breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Aberrant cytoplasmic accumulation of Sox9 may correlate with more aggressive ductal breast cancer phenotype.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lessons on responsiveness to adjuvant systemic therapies learned from the neoadjuvant setting		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Concomitant radio-chemotherapy (RCT) in inflammatory breast cancer (IBC) non responsive to primary chemotherapy (CT)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Integrating molecular profiling, histologic type and other variables: Defining the fingerprint of responsiveness to treatment		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Malignant adenomyoepithelioma of the breast combined with invasive lobular carcinoma	Presented herein is the first case of malignant adenomyoepithelioma (malignant AME) of the breast combined with invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) in a 53-year-old woman. Histologically, the tumor was composed of nodular proliferation of biphasic epithelial and myoepithelial carcinoma, partially surrounded by ILC. Interestingly, ILC metastasized to the axillary lymph nodes, while biphasic epithelial and myoepithelial carcinoma hematogenously metastasized to the lung and the kidney. On immunohistochemistry the biphasic carcinoma consisted of cytokeratin (CK) 8/18-positive/CK5/6-positive/smooth muscle actin (SMA)-negative inner carcinoma cells and CK8/18-positive/CK5/6-positive/SMA-positive outer carcinoma cells. The monophasic ILC cells had a CK8/18-positive/CK5/6-negative/SMA-negative staining pattern. Although it is unclear whether both ILC and biphasic epithelial and myoepithelial carcinoma originated from AME or whether ILC occurred independently of malignant AME, this is an exceptionally rare case, which might give rise to a special consideration of the histogenesis of breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ERR gamma mediates tamoxifen resistance in novel models of invasive lobular breast cancer (vol 68, pg 8908, 2008)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Conservative surgery in patients with multifocal/multicentric breast cancer	Purpose Many physicians recommend mastectomy in case of multifocal (MF) or multicentric (MC) breast cancer due to a theoretical risk of poor local control with less extensive surgery. We retrospectively evaluate outcome of patients with MF/MC cancers who had breast conservation with specific attention on local control and predictive factors of recurrence. Patients and methods Four hundred and seventy six patients with either MF (n = 421) or MC (n = 55) breast cancer, underwent breast-conserving surgery between 1997 and 2002 in a single institution. Median follow up was 73 months (range 11-118). Results Median age was 53 years (range 23-86). Invasive lobular carcinoma was found in 88 patients (18.5%) and mixed ductal-lobular cancer in 27 (5.7%) patients. Two hundred and sixty-seven patients (76.7%) had two identified tumor foci, 55 patients (15.3%) had three and 29 patients (8.0%) had four or more. Two hundred and sixty-one patients (55.3%) had nodal involvement. The 5-year cumulative incidence of local relapse was 5.1%. At the multivariate analysis, over-expression of HER2/neu and lack of both estrogen and progesterone receptors (HR: 3.2, 95% C.I. 1.01-10.0, and HR: 2.7, 95% C.I. 1.06-7.7, respectively) were associated with a higher ipsilateral breast cancer reappearance rate. Involvement of four or more lymph nodes and lack of estrogen and progesterone receptors (HR: 2.7, 95% C.I. 1.06-6.7, and HR: 4.7, 95% C.I. 2.1-10.4, respectively) were associated with poorer overall survival. Conclusions In selected patients with MF/MC breast cancer, wide conservative surgery is not associated with poor local disease control and can be considered whenever acceptable cosmetic results can be achieved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Economic evaluation of chemoprevention of breast cancer with tamoxifen and raloxifene among high-risk women in Japan	Raloxifene was approved for chemoprevention against breast cancer among high-risk women in addition to tamoxifen by the US Food and Drug Administration. This study aims to evaluate cost-effectiveness of these agents under Japan's health system. A cost-effectiveness analysis with Markov model consisting of eight health states such as healthy, invasive breast cancer, and endometrial cancer is carried out. The model incorporated the findings of National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel Project P-1 and P-2 trial, and key costs obtained from health insurance claim reviews. Favourable results, that is cost saving or cost-effective, are found by both tamoxifen and raloxifene for the introduction of chemoprevention among extremely high-risk women such as having a history of atypical hyperplasia, a history of lobular carcinoma in situ or a 5-year predicted breast cancer risk of >= 5.01% starting at younger age, whereas unfavourable results, that is 'cost more and gain less' or cost-ineffective, are found for women with a 5-year predicted breast cancer risk of <= 5.00%. Therapeutic policy switch from tamoxifen to raloxifene among postmenopausal women are implied cost-effective. Findings suggest that introduction of chemoprevention targeting extremely high-risk women in Japan can be justifiable as an efficient use of finite health-care resources, possibly contributing to cost containment.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Intraoperative molecular sentinel lymph node analysis with OSNA: multicentre prospective UK evaluation		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Optimal detection of micrometastases in sentinel lymph node of breast cancer: CBCSG-001 trial		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular breast carcinoma as a possible candidate phenotype for recessively inherited breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Chinese population - a ten year review.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The impact of preoperative breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on surgical decision-making in young patients with breast cancer.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Long term disease control outcomes for partial breast irradiation using MammoSite brachytherapy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Loss of expression of chromosome 16q genes DPEP1 and CTCF in lobular carcinoma in situ of the breast	Background Loss of the chromosomal material at 16q is the most frequent genetic event in invasive and in situ (LCIS) lobular carcinoma of the breast. However, the smallest region of overlap at 16q is not restricted to just the CDH1 locus harbouring E-cadherin, suggesting that neighbouring genes might be involved in the development and progression of these tumours. Potential novel tumour suppressor genes (TSG) at 16q include CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF), Decreased Expression in Renal and Prostate Cancer (DERPC) and Dipeptidase 1 (DPEP1). The aim of this study is to assess the expression of these genes in LCIS and compare them with normal breast, using CDH1 as a control, in order to evaluate their role as TSGs. Methods Cells from LCIS cases and normal breast lobules were microdissected and expression of target genes were quantified using real-time PCR. In addition, immunohistochemistry (IHC) for E-cadherin and CTCF was performed on paraffin processed LCIS (n = 49) and normal breast cases. Results All LCIS showed negative expression of E-cadherin. Similar to CDH1, CTCF and DPEP1 gene expression was significantly lower in LCIS cases compared with normal cases (P < 0.05). CTCF IHC expression showed significant reduction in LCIS compared to normal parenchymal cells. However, there was no difference in expression of DERPC between LCIS and normal breast tissue. Conclusions In addition to CDH1, loss of CTCF and DPEP1 gene expression suggest they are possible TSG in breast cancer and may, similar to CDH1, be potentially utilised as markers of predisposition of women diagnosed with LCIS.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic Grading of Invasive Lobular Carcinoma: Does Use of a Two-Tiered Nuclear Grading System Improve Interobserver Variability?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Incidence of Concurrent Lobular Carcinoma In Situ (LCIS), Columnar Cell Lesions (CCL) and Tubular Carcinoma (TC): An Analysis of 105 Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Incidence of Invasive Carcinoma and Ductal Carcinoma In Situ Following a Core Biopsy Diagnosis of Lobular Neoplasia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Outcome of Papillary Carcinoma of Breast, One Institutional Experience		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A 19-Gene Classifier Distinguishes Invasive Ductal and Classic Lobular Breast Carcinomas: Amplification of Chromosome 8q Characterizes Ductal While Estrogen-Related EGR-1 Characterizes Lobular Cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	"Modified" Alcian Blue Enhances the Intraoperative Diagnosis of Sentinel Lymph Node Metastasis in Invasive Lobular Carcinoma: A Prospective Study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Novel Biomarker To Aid in Differentiating Infiltrating Ductal Versus Infiltrating Lobular Carcinoma of the Breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive Lobular Carcinomas Do Not Express Basal Cytokeratin Markers CK5/6, CK14 and CK17		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ER/PR Positive and ER/PR Negative DCIS: Morphologic Characterization in a Cohort of Age-Matched Cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast Carcinoma and Lobule Development in Males: 5 Year Review at the Ottawa Hospital		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Human Epididymis Protein 4 (HE4) Expression Loss in Invasive Mammary Carcinoma Is Associated with Aggressive Disease and Adverse Clinical Outcome		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular Carcinoma In Situ Variants Misinterpreted as Ductal Carcinoma In Situ in Core Biopsy: Incidence and Significance		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histopathological Analysis of Nipple Involvement by Breast Carcinomas in Mastectomy Specimens from a Single Institution		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Does Nottingham Grade, MIB-1 Labeling Index (LI) Predict Recurrence Score (RS) of Oncotype Dx (TM) Assay?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Papillary Pattern in Breast Aspirates; Cytologic Differential Diagnosis with Histopathologic Correlation		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Three Dimensional Breast Pathology Imaging for Reducing Sampling Errors: A Case Study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Metastasis of Lobular Breast Carcinoma to the Uterus in a Patient under Anastrozole Therapy	Background: Metastasis of extragenital neoplasms to the uterus are rarely encountered, and usually occur as a manifestation of advanced disease. Lobular carcinoma is the most common type of breast cancer that metastasizes to the uterus. Case Report: We report on a 56-year-old woman who 3 years previously was diagnosed with invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast and was treated with surgery followed by chemotherapy and radiotherapy. While the patient was on adjuvant anastrozole therapy for 2 years, she complained of vaginal bleeding. Because of endometrial thickening and a uterine leiomyoma detected during abdominal ultrasonographic examination, a total hysterectomy with bilateral salpingooophorectomy was performed. Histopathologic examination of the specimens revealed carcinoma infiltration of the myometrium, endometrium, cervix, uterine tube, and left ovary. Immunohistochemical staining of tumoral cells with pancytokeratin and gross cystic disease fluid protein (GCDFP-15) proved the diagnosis of metastatic lobular breast carcinoma to the uterus. Conclusion: To our knowledge, this is the second case of lobular breast carcinoma metastasized to the uterus under anastrozole therapy. In women with lobular breast cancer under adjuvant anastrozole therapy, who present with vaginal bleeding, uterine metastasis of lobular carcinoma should be considered in the differential diagnosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Columnar cell lesions of the breast: an update and significance on core biopsy	Columnar cell lesions of the breast refer to the morphological spectrum of alterations of the epithelial lining of variably dilated acini of the terminal duct lobular unit (TDLU), often related to secretions and calcifications. After decades of varied terminologies, the term of 'flat epithelial atypia' by the World Health Organization (WHO) consensus group encompasses the part of the spectrum where columnar cell change or columnar cell hyperplasia acquires low grade cytological atypia, merging with atypical ductal hyperplasia and low grade ductal carcinoma in situ. Its association with low grade invasive carcinoma and lobular neoplasia, whether by proximity to these lesions, or by similar molecular expressions, has prompted greater scrutiny into its clinical significance.Although recent literature attempts to refine the term 'flat epithelial atypia', the applicability of its morphological criteria in routine diagnostic practice remains to be seen, and interobserver variability is highly possible. This poses even greater challenges especially in limited samples of breast tissue, such as in core biopsies, for pre-operative decision-making.The purpose of this review is to elucidate evolving clinical and diagnostically relevant principles that surround and influence the significance of this still controversial entity, especially when discovered on core biopsy in the initial phase of breast diagnosis and management.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular neoplasia of the breast: 68 years on	Lobular neoplasia, which encompasses both atypical lobular hyperplasia and lobular carcinoma in situ, is traditionally considered a risk lesion that indicates an increased relative risk of the affected woman for subsequent breast cancer development. Recent molecular genetic information on this entity, however, has provided additional insights into the biology of this incompletely understood disease. Recognition of variants of lobular carcinoma in situ has also led to dilemmas in optimal management, and the advent of pre-operative core biopsies for radiologically detected lesions has created uncertainties regarding how best to handle incidentally discovered lobular neoplasia on these biopsy cores. This article provides an overview of existing concepts, diagnostic pitfalls, pathobiology and current management approaches for this enigmatic lesion.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Partial breast irradiation as sole therapy for low risk breast carcinoma: Early toxicity, cosmesis and quality of life results of a MammoSite brachytherapy phase II study	Purpose: The MammoSite is a device that was developed with the goal of making breast-conserving surgery (BCT) more widely available. Our objective was to evaluate the MammoSite device performances after an open cavity placement procedure and quality of life in highly selected patients with early-stage breast cancer.Methods and materials: From March 2003 to March 2005,43 patients with T1 breast cancer were enrolled in a phase 11 study. The median age was 72 years. Twenty-five (58%) patients were treated with high-close rate brachytherapy using the MammoSite applicator to deliver 34 Gy in 10 fractions. The main disqualifying factor was pathologic sentinel node involvement (10143; 23%). There were no device malfunctions, migration or rupture of the balloon.Results: After a median follow-up of 13 months, there were no local recurrences and one contralateral lobular carcinoma. Seventeen (68%),13 (5214 8 (32%). 5 (20%) and 2 (8%) patients had erythema, seroma, inflammation, hematoma and sever infection, respectively. Only 2 patients developed telangiectasia. At 1 year the rate of "good to excellent" cosmetic results was 84%. Significant changes in QoL were observed for emotional and social well-being between 3 and 12 months. At 24 months, only emotional well-being subscore changes were statistically significant (p = 0.015).Conclusions: Our data in patients older than 60 years Support the previously published data. Histologic features were the main disqualifying criteria. With higher skin spacing levels we observed very low incidence of telangiectasia. QoL evaluation indicates that baseline scores were satisfactory, Changes concerned emotional and social well-being. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved, Radiotherapy and Oncology 90 (2009) 23-29	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The Use of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene for the Prevention of Breast Cancer	The NSABP Study of Tamoxifen and Raloxifene (STAR). launched in 1999, compared tamoxifen with raloxifene in a population of healthy postmenopausal women at increased risk for breast cancer to determine the relative effects on the risk of invasive breast cancer. To be eligible for participation, a woman had to be healthy with at least a 5-year predicted breast cancer risk of 1.66'% based on the Gail model or a history of lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) treated by local excision alone. All participants were at least 35 years of age and postmenopausal. Between July 1999 and November 2004, 19,747 participants were randomized to receive either tamoxifen (20 mg, plus placebo) or raloxifene (60 mg, plus placebo) daily for a 5-year period. The mean age of the participants was 58.5 years; 93% were white and 51.6% had a hysterectomy prior to entering the study. Of the women, 71% had one or more first degree female relatives (mother, sister, daughter) with a history of breast cancer and 9.2% of the women had a personal history of LCIS. A history of atypical hyperplasia of the breast was noted in 22.7% of the participants. The mean predicted 5-year risk of developing breast cancer among the study population was 4.03% (SD, 2.17%) with a lifetime predicted risk of 16%. The mean tune of follow-up is 3.9 years (SD, 1.6 years). There was no difference between the effect of tamoxifen and the effect of raloxifene on the incidence of invasive breast cancer; there were 163 cases of invasive breast cancer in the tamoxifen-treated group and 168 cases in those women assigned to raloxifene (incidence 4.30 per 1,000 vs 4.41 per 1,000; RR 1.02; 95% Cl, 082-1.28). There were fewer cases of noninvasive breast cancer (LCIS and ductal carcinoma in situ [DCIS]) in the tamoxifen group (57 cases) than in the raloxifene group (80 cases), although the difference is not yet statistically significant (incidence 1.51 vs 2.11 per 1,000; RR, 1.40; 95% CI, 0.98-2.00). There were 36 cases of uterine cancer with tamoxifen and 23 cases with raloxifene (RR, 0.63; 95%) CI, 0.35-1.08).	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Converting evidence to practice: A guide for the clinical application of MRI for the screening and management of breast cancer	Introduction: Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been increasingly utilized to screen and manage breast care. As the literature demonstrating its benefit expands, so do the potential clinical indications. However, routine review of the literature is merited to re-evaluate the appropriate and cost-effective use of MRI and guide clinicians in the areas of controversy.Methods: A literature review was performed to evaluate the current evidence for the use of MRI.Results: Evidence supports MRI screening for genetic mutation carriers and for those with an equivalent lifetime risk (> 50%). Regarding staging and management, MRI is indicated for monitoring tumour response to neoadjuvant therapy. MRI should also be considered for patients with invasive lobular carcinoma, mammographically occult breast cancer and Paget's disease.Discussion: Though MRI is limited by moderate specificity and high cost, it can be a valuable, sensitive and cost-effective tool with thoughtful and judicious patient selection. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Migraine in Postmenopausal Women and the Risk of Invasive Breast Cancer	Background: The frequency of migraine headache changes at various times of a woman's reproductive cycle. Menarche, menses, pregnancy, and perimenopause may carry a different migraine risk conceivably because of fluctuating estrogen levels, and in general, migraine frequency is associated with falling estrogen levels. Given the strong relationship between endogenous estrogen levels and breast cancer risk, migraine sufferers may experience a reduced risk of breast cancer.Methods: We combined data from two population-based case-control studies to examine the relationship between migraine and risk of postmenopausal invasive breast cancer among 1,199 ductal carcinoma cases, 739 lobular carcinoma cases, and 1,474 controls 55 to 79 years of age. Polytomous logistic regression was used to estimate odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI).Results: Women who reported a clinical diagnosis of migraine had reduced risks of ductal carcinoma (OR, 0.67; 95% CI, 0.54-0.82) and lobular carcinoma (OR, 0.68; 95% CI, 0.52-0.90). These associations were primarily limited to hormone receptor-positive tumors as migraine was associated with a 0.65-fold (95% CI, 0.51-0.83) reduced risk of estrogen receptor-positive (ER+)/progesterone receptor-positive (PR+) ductal carcinoma. The reductions in risk observed were seen among migraine sufferers who did and did not use prescription medications for their migraines.Conclusions: These data suggest that a history of migraine is associated with a decreased risk of breast cancer, particularly among ER+/PR+ ductal and lobular carcinomas. Because this is the first study to address an association between migraine history and breast cancer risk, additional studies are needed to confirm this finding. (Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2008;17(11):3116-22)	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathologic characteristics of invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast - Results of an analysis of 530 cases from a single institution	BACKGROUND. Although invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is the second most common histotype of breast cancer, the prognostic implications of its clinicopathologic characteristics remain controversial.METHODS. The authors undertook a retrospective analysis of a large series of cases treated and followed at a single institution, with the objective of assessing the prognostic/predictive value of distinct clinicopathologic features of the tumors, after revision of the original histopathologic preparations and statistical analyses.RESULTS. Overall, 530 patients with pure ILC (57% with the classic type; 19% with the alveolar type; 11% with the solid type; and the remaining 13% characterized by pleomorphic, signet ring cell, histiocytoid, or apocrine features) were included in the study. Tumor size, lymph node metastatic involvement, and hormonal status were confirmed to be significant prognostic factors. In addition, statistically significant correlations were demonstrated between the 'classic' histotype of ILC and a lower risk of axillary lymph node metastases (P =.0005), a reduced number of metastatic lymph nodes (P =.04), and lower tumor grade (P <.0001). Patients with ILC of the 'nonclassic' subtype demonstrated significantly increased breast-related events (hazards ratio of 1.80; 95% confidence interval, 1.04-3.10) and a trend toward reduced disease-free survival and overall survival.CONCLUSIONS. The results of the current Study confirm the clinical usefulness of several traditional clinicopathologic features of ILC as prognostic parameters but also emphasize the prognostic role of the histopathologic subtyping of these tumors, documenting the more favorable outcome of the classic subtype of ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Atypical lobular hyperplasia and classic lobular carcinoma in situ in core biopsy specimens: routine excision is not necessary	Standardized recommendations for the management of lobular neoplasia in core biopsy specimens are not established. The aim of our study was to define morphologic features of lobular neoplasia in core biopsies that predict the finding of ductal carcinoma in situ or invasive carcinoma in the subsequent excisional specimen. We reviewed 333 cases of atypical lobular hyperplasia or lobular carcinoma in situ without ductal carcinoma in situ or invasive carcinoma diagnosed in core biopsies from 1996 to 2006. Subsequent excision was performed in 41% (136/333) of cases, including atypical lobular hyperplasia (n = 48), lobular carcinoma in situ (n = 39), and lobular neoplasia associated with atypical ductal hyperplasia (n = 49). Upgrades were identified in 2% (1/48) of atypical lobular hyperplasia, 23% (9/39) of lobular carcinoma in situ, and 27% (13/49) of lobular neoplasia associated with atypical ductal hyperplasia cases. When further analyzed, the upgraded cases of lobular carcinoma in situ were associated with radiologic-pathologic discordance in 6/9 cases and with nonclassic pathology (two lobular carcinoma in situ with necrosis and one pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ) in the remaining three cases. The frequency of upgrade was 11% (3/26) in classic lobular carcinoma in situ, and 46% (6/13) in nonclassic types ( pleomorphic or with necrosis). After excluding cases with discordant imaging/pathology, there was a 5% upgrade in our excisional specimens. After excluding cases where the upgrade was associated with nonclassic morphology, the upgrade in our study was 1%. Our results suggest that atypical lobular hyperplasia and classic lobular carcinoma in situ with concordant radiology and pathology can be appropriately managed with clinical follow-up without surgery.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expressions of Fas, CTLA-4 and RhoBTB2 genes in breast carcinoma and their relationship with clinicopathological factors	Objective The purpose of this study was to explore the clinical significance of expression of Fas, CTLA-4 and RhoBTB2 genes in breast carcinoma. Methods Semi-quantitative reverse transcriptive polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was used to analyze the mRNA expression levels of the three genes in tumor tissues from 60 patients with primary breast cancer and normal breast tissues of 30 cases. The relationship between gene expression and clinicopathological factors were analyzed and determined. Results The relative expression levels (gray scale ratio between target gene and internal reference gene) of Fas, CTLA-4 and RhoBTB2 genes in breast carcinoma tissues were 0.699 +/- 0.285, 1.045 +/- 0.302 and 0.625 +/- 0.160, respectively. In the normal breast tissues, they were 0.502 +/- 0.178, 0.418 +/- 0.140 and 0.843 +/- 0.218, respectively. There were statistically significant differences of the expression of those three genes between carcinoma tissues and normal breast tissues (P<0.01). The expression level of Fas in carcinoma tissues was significantly higher in lymph node matastasis positive patients (0.782 +/- 0.313) than that in node-negative patients (0.557 +/- 0.146, P<0.01). The expression level of CTLA-4 gene in carcinoma tissues was lower in II stage patients (0.978 +/- 0.330)than that in III stage patients (1.134 +/- 0.240, P<0.05). The expression level of RhoBTB2 gene was lower in invasive ductal carcinoma (0.597 +/- 0.157) than that in invasive lobular carcinoma (0.717 +/- 0.145, P<0.05). There were no correlations of expression of the three genes at mRNA level and age, ER, PR, HER2 status and survival time. Furthermore, no correlation was seen among the three genes expression (P>0.05). Conclusion The expression of all the three genes at mRNA level is involved in genesis and progression of breast cancer. There exist correlations between Fas expression and axillary lymph node matastasis, CTLA-4 expression and disease stage, and RhoBTB2 expression and pathological type of breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular and ductal carcinomas of the breast have distinct genomic and expression profiles	Invasive ductal carcinomas (IDCs) and invasive lobular carcinomas (ILCs) are the two major pathological types of breast cancer. Epidemiological and histoclinical data suggest biological differences, but little is known about the molecular alterations involved in ILCs. We undertook a comparative large-scale study by both array-compared genomic hybridization and cDNA microarray of a set of 50 breast tumors (21 classic ILCs and 29 IDCs) selected on homogeneous histoclinical criteria. Results were validated on independent tumor sets, as well as by quantitative RT-PCR. ILCs and IDCs presented differences at both the genomic and expression levels with ILCs being less rearranged and heterogeneous than IDCs. Supervised analysis defined a 75-BACs signature discriminating accurately ILCs from IDCs. Expression profiles identified two subgroups of ILCs: typical ILCs (similar to 50%), which were homogeneous and displayed a normal-like molecular pattern, and atypical ILCs, more heterogeneous with features intermediate between ILCs and IDCs. Supervised analysis identified a 75-gene expression signature that discriminated ILCs from IDCs, with many genes involved in cell adhesion, motility, apoptosis, protein folding, extracellular matrix and protein phosphorylation. Although ILCs and IDCs share common alterations, our data show that ILCs and IDCs could be distinguished on the basis of their genomic and expression profiles suggesting that they evolve along distinct genetic pathways.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic grading is an independent prognostic factor in invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast	Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) comprises approximately 5-15% of breast cancers and appears to have a distinct biology. As it is less common than invasive ductal carcinoma, few studies of large size have addressed the value of assessment of histologic grade in ILC. Methods: This study is based on a large and well-characterised consecutive series of breast cancer (4,987 cases), from a single institution, with a long-term follow-up to assess the prognostic value of routine assessment of histologic grade in ILC. Histologic grade and other clinicopathological data were available in 517 pure ILC cases. A panel of biomarkers was also available for 215 cases. Results: The majority of ILC was of classical and mixed lobular variants (89%). Most ILC cases were moderately differentiated (grade 2) tumours (76%), while a small proportion of tumours were either grade 1 or 3 tumours (12% each). There were positive associations between histologic grade and other clinicopathological variables of poor prognosis such as larger size, positive lymph node, vascular invasion, oestrogen receptor and androgen receptor negativity and p53 positivity. Multivariate analyses showed that histologic grade is an independent predictor of shorter breast cancer specific survival and disease free interval. Conclusion: Histologic grade of ILC, as assessed by the Nottingham grading system, provides a strong predictor of outcome in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast and should be provided routinely in pathology reports.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Choline as a biomarker for cell proliferation: Do the results from proton MR spectroscopy show difference between HER2/neu positive and negative breast cancers?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytological characteristics of invasive lobular carcinoma of the human breast	In contrast to invasive ductal carcinoma, invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) of the breast is characterized by multiple ipsilateral occurrences and a higher incidence in the contralateral breast. It is therefore necessary to examine thoroughly whether there is any other carcinoma present before any breast-conserving surgery is carried out. We cytologically, histologically, and ultrastructurally investigated ILC and pure scirrhous carcinoma (PSC), a subtype of invasive ductal carcinoma, to establish cytological diagnostic criteria for the differential diagnosis of these two types of carcinoma that have high histological similarity. Cytologically, ILC cells showed linear or isolated cell arrangements and had small nuclei with round homogeneously distributed fine granular chromatin. The cytoplasm was light, and individual cells lacked cohesion. The carcinoma showed a rosary-like configuration. PSC cells, however, showed linear or cordlike arrangements. Individual cells showed a vertical arrangement. PSC cells had a linear cytoplasmic edge and were characterized by nuclear molding with coarse granular chromatin. These cytological findings were supported by histological and ultrastructural findings. These findings may contribute to histological estimation of ILC in preoperative cytological diagnosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Untitled		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Untitled - Reply		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Postmastectomy radiation therapy for lymph node-negative, locally advanced breast cancer after modified radical mastectomy - Analysis of the NCI surveillance, epidemiology and end results database	BACKGROUND. The role of postmastectomy radiotherapy (PMRT) for lymph node-negative locally advanced breast carcinoma (T3N0M0) after modified radical mastectomy (MRM) with regard to improvement in survival remains an area of controversy.METHODS. The 1973-2004 National Cancer Institute (NCI) Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database was examined for patients with T3N0M0 ductal, lobular, or mixed ductal and lobular carcinoma of the breast who underwent MRM, treated from 1988-2003. Patients who were men, who had positive lymph nodes, who survived <= 6 months, for whom breast cancer was not the first malignancy, who had nonbeam radiation, intraoperative or preoperative radiation were excluded. The average treatment effect of PMRT on mortality was estimated with a propensity score case-matched analysis.RESULTS. In all, 1777 patients were identified; 568 (32%) patients received PMRT. Median tumor size was 6.3 cm. The median number of lymph nodes examined was 14 (range, 1-49). Propensity score matched case-control analysis showed no improvement in overall survival with the delivery of PMRT in this group. Older patients, patients with ER- disease (compared with ER+), and patients with high-grade tumors (compared with well differentiated) had increased mortality.CONCLUSIONS. The use of PMRT for T3N0M0 breast carcinoma after MRM is not associated with an increase in overall survival. It was not possible to analyze local control in this study given the limitations of the SEER database. The impact of potential improvement in local control as it relates to overall survival should be the subject of further investigation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Serum EGFR and serum HER2 in patients with triple negative breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Keratin immunohistochemistry does not contribute to correct lymph node staging in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma	Studies suggest that immunohistochemistry improves rate of detecting sentinel lymph node metastases and is needed for adequate staging in invasive lobular carcinoma. Our study evaluates the use of cytokeratin immunohistochemistry in detecting sentinel lymph node metastases and its effect on staging patients with invasive lobular carcinoma. Material from 76 patients with invasive lobular carcinoma was reviewed. Cytokeratin immunostaining was performed on negative nodes, and deposits were classified as macrometastasis (> 2.0 mm), micrometastasis (> 0.2-2 mm), or isolated tumor cells (<= 0.2 mm). Of 76 cases, 24 (21 macro- and 3 micrometastases, 32%) were positive for metastasis and 14 (18%) for isolated tumor cells. immunohistochemistry was needed for all cases with isolated tumor cells and 1case of micrometastasis. Criteria to distinguish isolated tumor cells and micrometastasis need to be better defined. In our study, immunostaining changed nodal status and stage in 1 of 52 (2%) node-negative patients. Immunohistochemistry is essential to detect isolated tumor cells in sentinel lymph nodes. However, for detecting micro- or macrometastases, it does not provide any significant advantage over detailed histopathological evaluation of sentinel lymph node. (c) 2008 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular profiling pleomorphic lobular carcinomas of the breast: evidence for a common molecular genetic pathway with classic lobular carcinomas	Pleomorphic lobular carcinomas (PLC) of the breast display histological features associated with classic invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC), yet they also exhibit more conspicuous nuclear atypia and pleomorphism, and an aggressive clinical behaviour. From a breast cancer progression perspective, it is unclear whether PLC is a variant of ILC or is a high-grade invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) that has lost E-cadherin. The molecular features of 26 PLC were studied using immunohistochemistry [oestrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), HER2, p53 and E-cadherin], 0.9 Mb resolution, microarray-based comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH), fluorescent (FISH) and chromogenic (CISH) in situ hybridization and loss of heterozygosity. Comparative analysis was performed with aCGH data from PLC with classic ILC (16 cases) and high grade IDC (35 cases). PLCs were frequently ER- and PR-positive, E-cadherin-negative and occasionally HER2-and p53-positive. Recurrent copy number changes identified by aCGH included gains on 1q, 8q, 11q, 12q, 16p and 17q and losses on 8p, 11q, 13q, 16q and Xq. Highly recurrent 1q+ (100% of cases), 16p+ (93%), 11q- (53%) and 16q- (93%) and evidence of the der(1;16)/der(16)t(1;16) rearrangement, as detected by FISH, suggested that PLC had a 'lobular genotype'. Focal amplifications were evident at 8p12-p11, 8q24, 11q13.1-q14.1, 12q14,17q12 and 20q13. Loss of BRCA2 was detected in 40% of PLC by LOH. Comparative analysis of aCGH data suggested the molecular features of PLC (ER/PR-positive, E-cad herin-negative, 1q(+), 11q(-), 16p(+) and 16q(-)) were more closely related to those of ILC than IDC, implicating an overlapping developmental pathway for these lobular tumour types. Molecular alterations found in PLC that are more typical of high-grade IDC than ILC (p53 and HER2 positivity, 8q(+), 17q24-q25(+), 13q(-) and amplification of 8q24, 12q14, 17q12 and 20q13) are likely to drive the high-grade and more aggressive biology of PLC. Copyright (C) 2008 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Factors related to maturation and reproduction and risk of different histologic types of invasive breast carcinoma among women 55-74 years of age		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma metastasis to endometrial polyp unrelated to tamoxifen	Endometrial polyps are rare sites for metastatic breast carcinoma. Such cases have mostly been reported in tamoxifen-related polyps. We report a case of lobular carcinoma with metastasis to an endometrial polyp in a patient with no history of tamoxifen therapy. The histological features of the polyp in our case closely mimicked those of tamoxifen-related polyps, emphasizing the fact that - although characteristic - these features are not specific for tamoxifen. This case also reiterates the need for careful evaluation of endometrial polyps, since inconspicuous deposits of lobular carcinoma can easily be missed.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	High-resolution genomic and expression analyses of copy number alterations in breast tumors	Analysis of recurrent DNA amplification can lead to the identification of cancer driver genes, but this process is often hampered by the low resolution of existing copy number analysis platforms. Fifty-one breast tumors were profiled for copy number alterations (CNAs) with the high-resolution Affymetrix 500K SNP array. These tumors were also expression-profiled and surveyed for mutations in selected genes commonly mutated in breast cancer (TP53, CDKN2A, ERBB2, KRAS, PIK3CA, PTEN). Combined analysis of common CNAs and mutations revealed putative associations between features. Analysis of both the prevalence and amplitude of CNAs defined regions of recurrent alteration. Compared with previous array comparative genomic hybridization studies, our analysis provided boundaries for frequently altered regions that were approximately one-fourth the size, greatly reducing the number of potential alteration-driving genes. Expression data from matched tumor samples were used to further interrogate the functional relevance of genes located in recurrent amplicons. Although our data support the importance of some known driver genes such as ERBB2, refined amplicon boundaries at other locations, such as 8p11-12 and 11q13.5-q14.2, greatly reduce the number of potential driver genes and indicate alternatives to commonly suggested driver genes in some cases. For example, the previously reported recurrent amplification at 17q23.2 is reduced to a 249 kb minimal region containing the putative driver RPS6KB1 as well as the putative oncogenic microRNA mir-21. High-resolution copy number analysis provides refined insight into many breast cancer amplicons and their relationships to gene expression, point mutations and breast cancer subtype classifications. This article contains Supplementary Material available at http:// www.interscience.wiley.com/jpages/1045-2257/suppmat. (C) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Radiological-pathological correlation in diagnosing breast carcinoma: The role of pathology in the multimodality era	Breast carcinoma is a lobar disease, as the simultaneously or asynchronously appearing often multiple tumor foci originate from a single sick breast lobe. In its initial phase, the spatial pattern of malignant transformation may be lobar (targeting the entire lobe), segmental (targeting a segment) or terminal (targeting distant terminal ductal-lobular units) within the sick lobe. All these variations are properly characterized by the following parameters: the extent of the disease (the volume of the tissue containing all the actually present malignant structures within the breast), the distribution of the lesions within this tissue (unifocal, multifocal or diffuse, separately for in situ and invasive component), the size of the tumor (corresponding to the largest diameter of the largest invasive focus) and the exact localization of the lesion(s). In addition, intra- and intertumoral heterogeneity have to be noticed, if evident. Combining the results of different imaging modalities (mammography, ultrasound, magnetic resonance imaging) the radiologist may compensate the limitations of individual methods. This multimodality approach leads to more accurate radiological size measurement, more accurate assessment of the distribution of the lesions and disease extent. This represents a challenge for pathologists as the traditional histopathology method based on fragmentation and sampling of macroscopically suspicious lesion(s) is clearly insufficient for modern postoperative radiological-pathological correlation. There is a clear need for more complete examination of the excised tissue and for a three-dimensional reconstruction of the finding, preferably using continuous large tissue slices and two and three-dimensional large-format histological sections. Discordant results may still appear as a consequence of failure in radiological-pathological correlation or related to certain tumor subtypes as invasive lobular carcinoma of diffuse type, low grade in situ lesions or micropapillary ductal in situ carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular neoplasia on core needle biopsy does not require excision	BACKGROUND. Lobular neoplasia (LN), encompassing atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH) and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS), is often an incidental finding on core needle biopsies (CNBs) performed in instances of radiologic densities and/or calcifications. Because LN is generally considered a risk factor for breast carcinoma, the utility of subsequent excision is controversial.METHODS. The authors' database yielded 98 cases of LCIS and/or ALH. Cases containing LN accompanied by a second lesion mandating excision (eg, radial scar, atypical ductal hyperplasia [ADH]) and those failing to meet strict diagnostic criteria for LN (eg, atypical cells, mitoses, single-cell necrosis) were excluded. Radiographic calcifications were correlated with their histologic counterparts in terms of size, number, and pattern.RESULTS. Ninety-one biopsies were performed for calcifications and 7 were performed for mass lesions. The ages of the patients ranged from 35 to 82 years. Fifty-three patients were followed radiologically without excision, 42 of whom had available clinicoradiologic information. The 45 patients who under-went excision were without disease at follow-up periods ranging from I to 8 years. Of these 45 patients, 42 (93%) had biopsy results demonstrating only LN. The remaining 3 patients had biopsies with the following findings: ADH in 1 biopsy, residual LCIS and a separate minute focus of infiltrating lobular carcinoma (clearly an incidental finding) in the second biopsy, and ductal carcinoma in situ admixed with LCIS in the third biopsy (a retrospective examination performed by 2 blinded breast pathologists revealed foci of atypical cells and mitoses).CONCLUSIONS. Excision of LN is unnecessary provided that: 1) careful radiographic- pathologic correlation is performed; and 2) strict histologic criteria are adhered to when making the diagnosis. Close radiologic and clinical follow-up is adequate.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Impact of immunohistochemical markers, CK5/6 and E-cadherin on diagnostic agreement in non-invasive proliferative breast lesions	Aims: To assess the impact of cytokeratin (CK) 5/6 and E-cadherin immunohistochemistry on diagnostic agreement of non-invasive proliferative breast lesions.Methods and results: Twenty pathologists classified 105 cases of non-invasive proliferative breast lesions into 10 diagnostic categories. One haematoxylin and eosin (H&E) slide of each case was analysed on a first round and one H&E slide with corresponding CK5/6 and E-cadherin immunohistochemistry was analysed on a second round. Interobserver reproducibility for category-specific and management-specific lesions was measured on each round. CK5/6 and E-cadherin had little impact on diagnostic agreement, which remained moderate between the first and second rounds (overall kappa coefficients of 0.47 and 0.53, respectively, P = NS). Levels of agreement slightly improved for lesions with specific CK5/6 and E-cadherin immunoprofiles (usual ductal hyperplasia, atypical ductal hyperplasia, atypical lobular hyperplasia, lobular carcinoma in situ, non-high-grade ductal carcinoma in situ), but the differences observed were not statistically significant. However, diagnostic agreement improved when lesions were grouped according to their management category (overall kappa coefficients of 0.58 and 0.66 in the first and second rounds, respectively).Conclusions: CK5/6 and E-cadherin immunohistochemistry has little impact on interobserver reproducibility for non-invasive breast lesions. Diagnostic agreement can, however, be improved by grouping lesions in management categories.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BigH3 protein expression as a marker for breast cancer	The current hypothesis of tumorigenesis in humans suggests that cancer cells acquire their hallmarks of malignancy through the accumulation of advantageous gene activation and inactivation events over long periods of time. For breast cancer development, this multistep process may manifest itself as a sequence of pathologically defined stages. It is widely held that breast cancer originates at the premalignant stage of atypical ductal hyperplasia, progresses to the preinvasive stage of ductal carcinoma in situ, and culminates in the potentially lethal stage of invasive ductal carcinoma. Tumor grade has been a highly valuable prognostic factor for breast cancer, and high-grade ductal carcinoma in situ lesions are associated with poor clinical outcome. The aim of this work was to investigate the BigH3 protein expression changes associated with various stages of breast cancer progression in comparison to benign specimens using tissue microarray technology. Pathological characteristics of breast tissues ranged from benign lesions to breast cancers either of lobular or ductal carcinomas in origin, and included in situ ductal carcinomas, lobular carcinomas, infiltrating ductal carcinomas, carcinomas, scirrhous carcinomas, adenocarcinomas and infiltrating colloid carcinomas. BigH3 protein expression was analyzed by immunohistochemistry in 192 cases of breast tumors. Results indicated a decrease in BigH3 protein expression from benign tissues to in situ ductal carcinoma, lobular carcinoma, infiltrating ductal carcinomas, carcinomas, scirrhous carcinoma, adenocarcinomas to infiltrating colloid carcinomas. We observed that the benign tissue had a 23-fold increase in BigH3 protein expression compared to the infiltrating colloid carcinoma which was the most malignant tissue analyzed. In summary, these studies confirmed the suppressor effect of the BigH3 gene expressed as protein expression in those processes related to the progression of breast tumorigenesis. We conclude that this protein can be used as a marker for breast cancer progression.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The significance of lobular neoplasia on needle core biopsy of the breast	The management of a core biopsy diagnosis of lobular neoplasia is controversial. Detailed radiological-pathological review of 47 patients with cores showing classical lobular neoplasia was performed (patients with pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) or associated risk lesions were considered separately). Immediate surgical excision in 25 patients showed invasive carcinoma in 7, ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in 1 and pleomorphic LCIS in 1; radiological-pathological review showed that the core biopsy missed a mass in 5, missed calcification in 2 and that calcification appeared adequately sampled in 2. Nineteen patients had follow-up of at least 2 years. Four patients developed malignancy at the site of the core biopsy (invasive carcinoma in three, DCIS in one); one carcinoma was mammographically occult, one patient had dense original mammograms and two had calcifications apparently adequately sampled by the core. In conclusion, most carcinomas identified at the site of core biopsy showing lobular neoplasia were the result of the core missing the radiological lesion, emphasising the importance of multidisciplinary review and investigation of any discordance. Some carcinomas were found after apparently adequate core biopsy, raising the question of whether excision biopsy should be considered after all core biopsy diagnoses of lobular neoplasia.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytologic diagnosis of lobular carcinoma of the breast - Experience with 555 patients in the Rene Huguenin Cancer Center	BACKGROUND. Fine-needle aspiration generally produces results that are not as good for lobular carcinoma as the results for ductal carcinoma of the breast. In this study, the authors evaluated their team's performance in cytologic diagnosis of lobular carcinoma over 11 years and analyzed the reasons for diagnostic failure.METHODS. Cytologic findings were analyzed in 555 consecutive fine-needle cytopuncture specimens from women with palpable, invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast. The authors also examined the influence of the cytologist's experience, the clinical tumor size, the histologic subtype, and the histologic grade on diagnostic performance. All negative samples were re-examined, along with all samples that had been obtained during the last year of the study, to refine the morphologic description of lobular carcinoma.RESULTS. Malignancy was diagnosed in 68.8% of specimens overall. The individual pathologists diagnosed malignancy in from 44.4% to 81.1% of specimens, depending on their experience. Diagnostic performance was correlated with clinical tumor size, histologic grade, and histologic subtype, and correct diagnoses were significantly more frequent in pleomorphic subtypes than in "classic" types. Re-examination of all 32 negative specimens reduced the false-negative rate from 5.8% to 3.8%.CONCLUSIONS. Despite the pitfalls associated with lobular carcinoma of the breast, fine-needle cytopuncture remains a useful diagnostic tool before treatment. Failures can be reduced through experience and by better knowledge of cytologic features.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Triple negative breast cancer: our experience during the last five years (2002-2007)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Chinese population - a 10 year review		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Maintenance of breast cell lines with malignant phenotype and progenitor cells properties		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of Leukemia/Lymphoma Related Factor (LRF) in Human Breast Carcinoma and Comparison with other Cancers	Leukemia/lymphoma-related factor (LRF), a member of the POK family, has a vital function in cellular transformation. Apart from its role in lymphomas, very little is known about its expression in most solid tumors, including breast carcinoma. In this study, LRF mRNA transcripts and protein expression was quantified in benign and malignant breast, colon, liver, lung, renal, and mesothelioma tissues by performing RT-PCR, Western blot, immunohistochemistry, and immunocytochemistry. All malignant breast tissues expressed significantly more LRF mRNA transcripts and protein than the benign breast tissues. LRF was expressed more strongly in fibroadenoma, invasive lobular carcinoma and ductal carcinoma in situ than in other breast diseases. The ducts in ductal hyperplasia tissues of the breast were weakly positive. In general, a significantly higher expression of LRF was seen in malignant tissue than in the corresponding benign or normal tissue. LRF expression in the carcinoma of the colon, liver, and lung was higher than in the corresponding normal or benign tissues. A strong expression of LRF was observed in normal prostate but not in prostate cancer. These data suggest that LRF could be a marker for malignancy or proliferation of the cancers.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Towards targeted screening for drugs active against lobular breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast: Role of endothelial lymphatic marker D2-40	Lymphovascular invasion (LVI) of breast cancer is an independent adverse prognosticator that is associated with increased regional and distant tumor recurrence. LVI is infrequently encountered in invasive lobular carcinoma when compared to invasive ductal carcinoma. We employed D2-40 antibody, a novel marker for lymphatic endothelial cells, in an attempt to enhance the detection of LVI in invasive lobular carcinomas. We identified 78 patients with invasive lobular carcinoma with known axillary status, who were studied between 2003 and 2006. D2-40 antibody was applied to one representative paraffin block from each case and the results were compared to LVI on routine histology. LVI was identified in 12 (15%) and 19 (24%) cases by routine histology and D2-40 antibody, respectively. Eleven of 12 patients (92%) with LVI identified by routine histology had axillary nodal metastasis compared to 14 of 19 patients (74%) with LVI identified by D2-40 antibody. LVI was missed by routine histology in 8 cases (10%). D2-40 antibody enhanced the identification of LVI by 9% in node negative patients. D2-40 antibody increased the identification of LVI by 12% in classic invasive lobular carcinoma. In conclusion, D2-40 antibody staining may be useful as an adjunct in detecting LVI in invasive lobular carcinoma, especially in node-negative patients with the classic variant of invasive lobular carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	High rates of breast conservation for large ductal and lobular invasive carcinomas combining multimodality strategies	The literature reports low rates of breast conservation after neoadjuvant chemotherapy for operable breast cancers not amenable to initial breast-conserving surgery. This study aims to compare the outcome of lobular vs ductal carcinomas after neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Between 1989 and 1999, 750 patients with clinical stage II/IIIA ductal (672) or lobular (78) invasive breast carcinomas were treated at the Institut Curie with primary anthracycline-based polychemotherapy followed by either breast conservation (surgery and/or radiotherapy) or mastectomy. Median follow-up was 10 years. Clinical response to primary chemotherapy was significantly worse for lobular than for ductal carcinomas (47 vs 60%; P = 0.04), but only histological grade remained predictive in multivariate analysis. Breast conservation was high for both ductal and lobular carcinomas (65 and 54%; P = 0.07), due, in part, to the use of radiotherapy, either exclusive or preoperative, for respectively 26 and 40% of patients. The lobular type had no adverse effect, neither on locoregional control nor on overall survival, even in the group of patients treated with breast conservation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MRI compared to conventional diagnostic work-up in the detection and evaluation of invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast: a review of existing literature	Purpose: The clinical diagnosis and management of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) of the breast presents difficulties. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been proposed as the imaging modality of choice for the evaluation of ILC. Small studies addressing different aspects of MRI in ILC have been presented but no large series to date. To address the usefulness of MRI in the work-up of ILC, we performed a review of the currently published literature.Materials and methods: We performed a literature search using the query "lobular AND (MRI OR MR OR MRT OR magnetic)" in the Cochrane library, PubMed and scholar.google.com, to retrieve all articles that dealt with the use of MRI in patients with ILC. We addressed sensitivity, morphologic appearance, correlation with pathology, detection of additional lesions, and impact of MRI on surgery as different endpoints. Whenever possible we performed meta-analysis of the pooled data.Results: Sensitivity is 93.3% and equal to overall sensitivity of MRI for malignancy in the breast. Morphologic appearance is highly heterogeneous and probably heavily influenced by interreader variability. Correlation with pathology ranges from 0.81 to 0.97; overestimation of lesion size occurs but is rare. In 32% of patients, additional ipsilateral lesions are detected and in 7% contralateral lesions are only detected by MRI. Consequently, MRI induces change in surgical management in 28.3% of cases.Conclusion: This analysis indicates MRI to be valuable in the work-up of ILC. It provides additional knowledge that cannot be obtained by conventional imaging modalities which can be helpful in patient treatment.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Relationship between menopausal hormone therapy and risk of ductal, lobular, and ductal-lobular breast carcinomas	Combined estrogen and progestin hormone therapy (CHT) increases breast cancer risk, but this risk varies by breast cancer type. Several studies indicate that CHT is more strongly related to lobular carcinoma risk than to ductal carcinoma risk, but these studies have been limited in their assessments of recency and duration of use, and none included a centralized pathology review. We conducted a population-based case-control study consisting of 324 lobular, 196 ductal-lobular, and 524 ductal cases diagnosed from 2000 to 2004 and 469 controls ages 55 to 74 years old. Tissue specimens were centrally reviewed for 83% of cases. Associations between hormone use and breast cancer risk were evaluated using polytomous logistic regression. Current CHT users had 2.7-fold [95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.7-4.21 and 3.3-fold (95% CI, 2.0-5.7) elevated risks of lobular and ductal-lobular carcinomas, respectively, regardless of tumor stage, size, or nodal status. Elevations in risk were observed only among users of CHT for >= 3 years. Among ductal-lobular cases, CHT increased risk of tumors that were >= 50% lobular (odds ratio, 4.8; 95% CI, 2.1-11.1) but not tumors that were < 50% lobular (odds ratio, 1.9; 95% CI, 0.9-4.1). Current CHT users for >= 3 years have a substantially increased risk of lobular carcinomas. Although lobular carcinomas are less common than ductal carcinomas(similar to 16% versus 70% of all invasive breast cancers in the United States), this duration is shorter than the 5 years of use widely cited to be needed to confer an increased risk of breast cancer overall. Further studies focusing on the etiology of lobular carcinomas are needed.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	EXPRESSION OF ABC-TRANSPORTERS IN MALIGNANT BREAST TISSUE		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast: Response to hormonal therapy and outcomes	Invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) comprises approximately 5-15% of breast cancers and appears to have a distinct biology. It is less common than invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) and few large studies have addressed its biologic characteristics and behaviour with respect to long-term clinical outcome and response to adjuvant therapy.Methods: This study is based on a large and well-characterised consecutive series of invasive breast carcinomas with a long-term follow-up (up to 25 years). This series included 415 (8%) patients with pure ILC and 2901 (55.7%) with IDC (not otherwise specified) identified from a consecutive cohort of 5680 breast tumours presented to our Breast Unit that were treated in a similar conventional manner. Clinicopathological, therapy and outcome information as well as data on a large panel of biomarkers were available.Results: Compared to IDC, patients with ILC tended to be older and present with tumours which are more frequently lower grade (typically, grade 2 [84%]), hormone-receptor positive (86% compared to 61% in IDC), of larger size, and with the absence of vascular invasion. A higher frequency of ILC was placed in the good Nottingham Prognostic Index group (40% compared to 21% in IDC). ILC showed indolent but progressive behavioural characteristics with nearly linear survival curves which crossed those of IDC after approximately 10 years of follow-up, thus eventually exhibiting a worse long-term outcome. Importantly, ILC showed a better response to adjuvant hormonal therapy (HT) with improvement in survival in patients who received HT compared with matched patients with IDC.Conclusion: ILC is a distinct entity of breast cancer that responds well to adjuvant HT. These data add important clinical information for assessing the long-term benefits of adjuvant HT use in ILC. (c) 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	In situ and invasive lobular neoplasia of the breast	Lobular neoplasia of the breast represents a group of related malignancies with clinical implications ranging from risk lesions [atypical lobular hyperplasia and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS)] through to aggressive invasive lesions, notably invasive pleomorphic lobular carcinoma. The diversity in lobular carcinoma is evident at the morphological level, at the molecular marker level and in cytogenetic profiles. Research in these areas is already changing the face of the disease group, for example suggesting that some lobular and ductal carcinomas are closely related and even that one of the lobular group, the tubulo-lobular carcinomas, should, in fact, be regarded as a ductal cancer. More research is required to understand the long-term pathogenic implications of a diagnosis of in situ lobular neoplasia, particularly pleomorphic LCIS, and to understand the genetics behind the well-recognized high risk of bilateral disease. For invasive carcinoma, molecular studies will allow refinement of therapy and the possibility of novel targeted therapies, for example directed against fibroblast growth factor receptor 1.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Nuclear grade and survival in invasive lobular carcinoma: A study with long-term follow-up		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Is p120 as effective as e-cadherin (Ecad) in distinguishing lobular (L) from ductal (D) carcinomas of the breast? A study of 235 cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Serial analysis of gene expression of lobular carcinoma in situ identifies upregulation of metal loproteinase MMP-9 and downregulation of tight junction protein claudin 4		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of the anterior margins in skin-sparing mastectomies for breast carcinoma: Pathologic findings and their clinical implications		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	What is the value of a third re-excision in breast conserving therapy?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A ten year review of 837 cases of lobular neoplasia: Association with the spectrum of ductal neoplasia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of fatty acid synthase (FAS) in columnar cell lesions of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Improving interobserver reproducibility of nodal stage classification through standardized histologic criteria and image-based training		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	What is the relationship between closely approximated low-grade ductal and lobular lesions in the breast? A molecular study of 10 cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Separation of invasive lobular from ductal carcinoma of the breast using Raman molecular Imaging		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Nuclear grade and survival in invasive lobular carcinoma: A study with long-term follow-up		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The dynamic biology of E-cadherin and p120 catenin: Development of a dual immunostain for diagnostic use in breast pathology		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Is p120 as effective as E-cadherin (Ecad) in distinguishing lobular (L) from ductal (D) carcinomas of the breast? A study of 235 cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Biophenotype of pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ on core needle biopsies		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Percentage of high risk breast lesions upgraded after core biopsy: A systematic review and meta-analysis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A ten year review of 837 cases of lobular neoplasia: Association with the spectrum of ductal neoplasia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of fatty acid synthase (FAS) in columnar cell lesions of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Improving interobserver reproducibility of nodal stage classification through standardized histologic criteria and image-based training		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	What is the relationship between closely approximated low-grade ductal and lobular lesions in the breast? A molecular study of 10 cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Separation of invasive lobular from ductal carcinoma of the breast using Raman molecular imaging		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The coexistence of invasive ductal carcinoma and malignant phyllodes tumor with liposarcomatous and chondrosarcomatous differentiation in the same breast in a post-osteosarcoma case	Malignant phyllodes tumors of the breast are rare biphasic neoplasms, the stromal component of which may show homologous and heterologous sarcomatous elements. Malignant epithelial transformation is rare. It has been reported in a few cases of in situ and infiltrating ductal or lobular carcinoma. Rarely, breast carcinomas and phyllodes tumors may also develop in the same breast independent of each other. To our knowledge, this is the first case of two different types of tumor occurring in the same breast at the same time in a post-osteosarcoma case. (C) 2008 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Synchronous squamous cell carcinoma of the breast and invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Partial breast irradiation using the MammoSite (R) device for low risk breast carcinoma in patients aged >= 60 years: toxicity, cosmesis and quality of life results of a phase II study.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Use of hormonal therapies before and after diagnosis of a high risk breast lesion among 1,198 women in the community setting		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical significance of occult axillary lymph node metastases in breast cancer patients without adjuvant systemic therapy: a long-term retrospective study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A comparison study between multidetector-row CT and histopathological findings in terms of the extension diagnosis of breast cancer.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathological and prognostic relevance of uptake level revealed by F-18-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography fusion imaging (F-18-FDG PET/CT) in primary breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical relevance of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Changes in breast cancer incidence rates in the united states by histologic subtype and race/ethnicity, 1995 to 2004	Breast cancer incidence rates rose throughout the 1980s and 1990s in the United States but have recently declined through 2004. Studies reporting this decline primarily attribute it to the sharp decline in menopausal hormone use following publication of the Women's Health Initiative trial results. However, they have not stratified rates by either histologic type or race/ethnicity, which could further inform contributors to these trends. Using data from 13 cancer registries that participate in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program, we evaluated annual percent changes (APC) in breast cancer incidence rates from 1995 to 2004 by histologic type and race/ethnicity for intervals identified using joinpoint regression. Invasive ductal carcinoma and invasive lobular carcinoma incidence rates fell steadily from 1998 to 2004 [APC, -3.07% (95% confidence interval, -4.10 to -2.02) and APC, -3.18% (95% confidence interval, -5.18 to -1.03), respectively]. Declines in rates of breast cancer overall and invasive ductal carcinoma were primarily limited to women >= 50 years of age and to non-Hispanic whites and Asian/ Pacific Islanders, and declines in rates of invasive lobular carcinoma were primarily limited to non-Hispanic whites. The majority of these declines began around 1998 and all began before 2002 when the Women's Health Initiative trial results were published; thus, the abrupt decline in hormone therapy use starting in 2002 is unlikely to be primarily responsible for the recent decline in breast cancer rates. The declines observed thus far are likely attributable to saturation of screening, although further declines related to the widespread cessation of hormone use may follow.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of novel modifier loci of Apc(Min) affecting mammary tumor development	Genetic background affects the susceptibility to mammary tumor development in Apc(Min/+) mice. Here we report the identification of four novel modifier loci that influence different aspects of mammary tumor development in Apcml` ' mice. Analysis of tumor development in a backcross of (FVBB6 Apc(Min/+)) X B6 Apc(Min/+), mice has identified a modifier on chromosome 9 that significantly affects tumor multiplicity, and a modifier on chromosome 4 that significantly affects tumor latency and affects tumor number with suggestive significance. This modifier was also identified in a backcross involving 129X1/SvJ and B6 Apc(Min/+) mice. A modifier on chromosome IS specifically affects tumor latency but not tumor number. Kaplan-Meier analysis suggests there is at least an additive interaction affecting tumor latency between the loci on chromosomes 4 and 18. We also identified a modifier locus on chromosome 6 that interacts with the loci on chromosome 4 and chromosome 9 to affect tumor number. These results suggest that multiple genetic loci control different aspects of mammary tumor development. None of these modifiers is associated with intestinal tumor susceptibility, which indicates that these modifiers act on tumor development in a tissue-specific manner.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The impact of large sections on the study of in situ and invasive duct carcinoma of the breast	Large histologic sections (LHSs) are increasingly used in the study of normal and neoplastic breast tissue. LHSs allow the direct visualization of a large part of the breast glandular tree. Accordingly, LHSs have shown that in situ and invasive lobular carcinoma is a multilobar (and hence multifocal) neoplastic lesion in more than 50% of the cases, and that poorly differentiated duct carcinoma in situ (DCIS grade 3) is frequently unifocal., whereas it is often multifocal when the in situ lesion is a well-differentiated type (DCIS grade 1). Forty-five mastectomies were studied with large sections. Mastectomies were performed when quadrantectomy did not guarantee radical excision of the tumor with adequate cosmesis because of the large size of the lesion or because the neoplastic lesion was located below the nipple. Excluded were cases of lobular neoplasia or invasive lobular carcinoma, because they were reported separately, and cases of mastectomies performed for sarcoma or recurrent phyllodes tumor. All cases had undergone a preoperative diagnostic procedure (fine needle aspiration), and the relative positive material was reviewed. All 45 cases showed in situ duct carcinoma and 37 showed evidence of invasive duct carcinoma. Forty-two cases of DCIS were multifocal, whereas only 4 invasive duct carcinoma were shown as multifocal. When DCIS lesions were subdivided into 3 grades, no statistical significance was seen among the 3 groups of DCIS in regard to multifocality. Nevertheless, DCIS grade I was a widespread condition involving more than one lobe and quadrant, whereas DCIS grades 2 and 3 appeared more localized. DCIS grade I was more similar to that previously observed in lobular in situ neoplasia/lobular in situ carcinoma. In 66.6% of the cases, DCIS foci were found within the invasive areas, indicating a more than fortuitous occurrence (2-sided P = .0357). (c) 2007 Published by Elsevier Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Non-operative breast pathology: lobular neoplasia	Lobular neoplasia is a relatively uncommon lesion, which is frequently diagnosed in biopsy specimens taken for other reasons. Although the histological features of this lesion are well known, its biological significance as a "risk indicator'' or "breast cancer precursor'' has been a matter of debate. This review provides an update on recent clinicopathological and molecular data on lobular neoplasia and how these have changed the way these lesions are perceived and, most importantly, managed. Furthermore, the current recommendations for the management of lobular neoplasia diagnosed on core needle biopsies proposed in the National Health Service Breast Cancer Screening guidelines are discussed.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Screening and follow-up of the patient at high risk for breast cancer	Accurately defining a patient's risk of developing breast cancer is a challenging endeavor. Many factors have been implicated in the causation of breast cancer and quantifying them is difficult. Risk stratification is performed using population models, such as the Gail model, as well as the patient's personal and family history and genetic testing. The clinician who is facile with these components will not only be able to identify those patients at highest risk for whom heightened surveillance is recommended, but also to allay the fears of the average-risk patient and provide them reassurance. Patients who are at very high risk of developing breast cancer are BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation carriers, those with a personal history of atypical ductal hyperplasia or lobular carcinoma in situ with associated family history, those who have undergone therapeutic or similarly significant radiation exposure, and those with a history of a BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation in the family of an untested individual. Patients with an elevated risk, but not in the very high risk category, are those with a family history of breast cancer, personal history of breast cancer, significantly dense breast tissue, hormone replacement therapy longer than 10 years, and a history of atypical ductal hyperplasia or lobular carcinoma in situ without family history of breast cancer. Risk-reducing strategies include chemoprevention with tamoxifen or raloxifene and surgical prophylaxis with bilateral prophylactic mastectomy and/or bilateral salpingooophorectomy. A high-risk surveillance regimen includes annual mammography, annual magnetic resonance imaging in selected individuals, and semiannual clinical breast exams.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Tamoxifen or raloxifene in postmenopausal women for prevention of breast cancer: A tale of two choices-counterpoint		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	In vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy of breast lesions: an update	In vivo proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( H-1-MRS) has been demonstrated to be successful in the differentiation of benign and malignant breast lesions in a non-invasive manner by detecting increased levels of composite choline (Cho) compounds. Currently there is molecular evidence of increased Cho metabolism in breast cancer cells. In breast malignancies, 1H-MRS achieved a high- overall sensitivity (82%). Most test cases were infiltrating duct carcinoma, but infiltrating lobular, medullary, mucinous and adenoid cystic carcinomas were also positive by H-1-MRS. Large lesional size is a pre-requisite for H-1-MRS testing, and technical problems account for some of the false negative results. Another potential of H-1-MRS is to assess patients' response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. In ductal carcinoma in situ, the results of H-1-MRS on the limited number of cases were negative. Most of the assessed benign breast lesions including fibroadenoma, fibrocystic changes, cysts and galactoceles, papilloma, tubular adenoma and phyllodes tumours and were mostly negative by H-1-MRS, with an overall false positive rate was about 8%. Normal breast tissue was almost always negative by H-1-MRS, whereas, lactating breast tissue showed positivity with a slightly different spectrum on further analysis. With the clinical use of stronger field MR scanners and better coils, the sensitivity of H-1-MRS may be further improved. With these improvements, H-1-MRS may potentially be useful in detection of smaller malignant lesions, characterization of malignant lesions into non-invasive or invasive, and as an invaluable tool in disease progression monitoring.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Global histone modifications in breast cancer tissue correlate with tumor phenotype, prognostic factors and patient outcome		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prediction of axillary lymph node metastasis by size and grade of tumour - an aid for the discussion of axillary surgery in patients with operable breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MR imaging in the preoperative assessment of patients with lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Increased incidence of lobular breast cancer in women treated with hormone replacement therapy: Implications for diagnosis, surgical and medical treatment	A growing body of evidence support the association between the use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and a higher risk of both invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) and invasive ductal-lobular mixed carcinoma (IDLC). Overall biological and clinical features of ILC entail a more cautious diagnostic and therapeutic approach as compared with invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC). ILCs are more frequently multifocal, multicentric and/or bilateral. Mammography and ultrasound show, therefore, significant limitations, while the higher sensitivity of magnetic resonance imaging in the detection of multifocal and/or multicentric lesions seems to improve the accuracy of preoperative staging of ILCs. Early diagnosis is even more challenging because the difficult in the localization and the sparse cellularity of lobular tumours may determine a false negative core biopsy. ILC is characterized by low proliferative activity, C-ErbB-2 negativity, bcl-2 positivity, p53 and VEGF negativity, oestrogen and progesterone positive receptors, low grade and low likelihood of lymphatic-vascular invasion. However, this more favourable biological behaviour does not reflect into a better disease-free and overall survival as compared with I DC. Since lobular histology is associated with a higher risk of positive margins, mastectomy is often preferred to breast conservative surgery. Moreover, only few patients with ILC achieve a pathologic response to preoperative chemotherapy and, therefore, in most patients mastectomy can be regarded as the safer surgical treatment. The preoperative staging and the follow-up of patients with ILC are also complicated by the particular metastatic pattern of such histotype. In fact, metastases are more frequently distributed to the gastrointestinal tract, peritoneum/retroperitoneum and gynaecological organs than in IDC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Accuracy of image-guided large core needle biopsy diagnosis of breast papilloma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Acute pancreatitis secondary to metastatic lobular breast carcinoma - Report of a case and review of the literature		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of nuclear grade in lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS): Correlation with image cytometry		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical study of androgen receptor in breast carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of biomarkers in lobular carcinoma in situ		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive ductal carcinoma and invasive lobular carcinoma of breast differ in response following neoadjuvant therapy with epidoxorubicin and docetaxel plus G-CSF	Purpose Preoperative chemotherapy in patients with primary breast cancer treated with anthracyclines and taxanes results in high response rates, allowing breast conserving surgery (BCS) in patients primarily not suitable for this procedure. Pathological responses are important prognostic parameters for progression free and overall survival. We questioned the impact of histologic type invasive ductal carcinoma ( IDC) versus invasive lobular carcinoma ( ILC) on response to primary chemotherapy.Patients and Methods 161 patients with breast cancer received preoperative chemotherapy consisted of epidoxorubicin 75 mg/m(2) and docetaxel 75 mg/ m 2 administered in combination with granulocyte- colony stimulating factor ( G-CSF) on days 3 - 10 ( ED + G). Pathological complete response ( pCR), biological markers and type of surgery as well as progression free and overall survival were compared between IDC and ILC.Results Out of 161 patients, 124 patients presented with IDC and 37 with ILC. Patients with ILC were less likely to have a pCR ( 3% vs. 20%, P < 0.009) and breast conserving surgeries ( 51% vs. 79%, P < 0.001). Patients with ILC tended to have oestrogen receptor positive tumors ( 86% vs. 52%, P < 0.0001), HER 2 negative tumors ( 69% vs. 84%), and lower nuclear grade ( nuclear grade 3, 16% vs. 46%, P < 0.001). Patients with ILC tended to have longer time to progression ( TTP) ( 42 months vs. 26 months) and overall survival ( 69 months vs. 65 months).Conclusions Our results indicate that patients with ILC achieved a lower pCR rate and ineligibility for BCS to preoperative chemotherapy, but this did not result in a survival disadvantage. Because of these results new strategies to achieve a pCR are warranted.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	In breast carcinoma dysadherin expression is correlated with invasiveness but not with E-cadherin	Reduction/loss of E-cadherin is associated with the development and progression of many epithelial tumours. Dysadherin, recently characterised by members of our research team, has an anti-cell-cell adhesion function and downregulates E-cadherin in a posttranscriptional manner. The aim of the present study was to study the role of dysadherin in breast cancer progression, in association with the E-cadherin expression and the histological type. We have selected ductal carcinoma, which is by far the most common type and lobular carcinoma, which has a distinctive microscopic appearance. Dysadherin and E-cadherin expression was examined immunohistochemically in 70 invasive ductal carcinomas, no special type (NST), and 30 invasive lobular carcinomas, with their adjacent in situ components. In ductal as well as in lobular carcinoma dysadherin was expressed only in the invasive and not in the in situ component, and this expression was independent of the E- cadherin expression. Specifically, all 10 (100%) Grade 1, 37out of 45(82.2%) Grade 2 and six out of 15 (40%) Grade 3 invasive ductal carcinomas showed preserved E- cadherin expression, while 'positive dysadherin expression' was found in six out of 10 (60%) Grade 1, 34 out of 45(75.5%) Grade 2 and all 15 (100%) Grade 3 neoplasms. None of the 30 infiltrating lobular carcinomas showed preserved E- cadherin expression, while all the 30 infiltrating lobular carcinomas exhibited 'positive dysadherin expression'. Dysadherin may play an important role in breast cancer progression by promoting invasion and, particularly in lobular carcinomas, it might also be used as a marker of invasion.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Magnetic resonance imaging of breast lesions - a pathologic correlation	Magnetic resonance imaging of the breast is useful in assessing breast lesions. An understanding of the pathologic characteristics of the tumors may help to understand these magnetic resonance imaging observations. Large lesional size (> 10 mm), ill-defined margin, and irregular outlines are associated with malignancy. These correlate with the pathological features of breast tumor, characterized by rapid growth rate, large size, and infiltrative growth pattern, invasion into stroma resulting in desmoplasia, and hence irregular outline and margin. The detection and estimation of tumor extent of invasive lobular carcinoma is problematic, even with magnetic resonance imaging, which is considered the most sensitivity. This inaccuracy likely derives from the characteristic linear, single cells infiltration growth pattern of the tumor, which is also often underestimated by clinical examination. Estimation of tumor extent after neoadjuvant chemotherapy is also essential but problematic by imaging, as the shrunken tumor becomes fibrotic, with stromal hyalinization, diminished microvasculature and tumor break up causing size underestimation. Non-enhancement of breast tumors occurs in about 8% of cases correlates with diffuse growth pattern, particularly of infiltrative lobular carcinoma. The observation of disproportionately high non-enhancing ductal carcinoma in situ remains an enigma. Finally, early rim enhancement correlates with small cancer nests, low ratio of peripheral to central fibrosis and high ratio of peripheral to central microvessel density. These may be related to increased vascular endothelial growth factor mediated increased microvessel density as well as increased permeability, which manifest as increased rapid contrast uptake and dissipation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Estrogen receptor expression of DMBA-induced mammary tumors in intact and ovariectomized lean and obese Zucker rats.	Obesity is associated with increased risk for postmenopausal breast cancer. Clinical data suggest that women with Estrogen Receptor negative (ER-) breast cancer have poorer outcome than those with ER+ tumors. The main objective of this study was to investigate whether obesity can be associated with the expression of ER in mammary tumors in the presence or absence of ovarian estrogen. Lean and obese Zucker rats were sham operated or ovariectomized at age 40 days and were gavaged at age 50 days with 65 mg/kg DMBA. Rats were weighed and palpated twice weekly for detection of mammary tumors and killed 135 days post-DMBA treatment. ER immunohistochemistry was performed on paraffin-embedded tumors. The incidence of mammary tumors was 59% in the obese, sham-operated (O/S) rats compared to 30% in the lean sham-operated (L/S) group (P < 0.05) and 36% for the obese ovariectomized (0/0) rats while no lean ovariectomized (L/O) rats developed tumors (P < 0.001). ER expression was evaluated for all the ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) or invasive ductal and lobular carcinoma (IDC) tumors and the results are as follows; L/S group (17% ER - and 83% ER+), O/S group (45% ER- and 55% ER+) and O/O groups had 50% ER- and 50% ER +. These preliminary results suggest that obesity may increase the incidence of ER negative tumors in the obese Zucker rat DMBA mammary tumor model.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Radial scars/complex sclerosing lesions and malignancy in a screening programme: incidence and histological features revisited	Aims Radial scars (RS) are benign entities, frequently identified on screening mammography, which may be associated with malignancy. Much debate has been generated with regard to the optimum management of RS. We present our experience of RS in the first 5 years of a screening programme. The aim was to evaluate (i) the incidence of atypia and malignancy and (ii) the value of the preoperative core biopsy. We also further characterize the histological features.Methods and results One hundred and twenty-five histologically confirmed cases of RS were reviewed (111 had preoperative biopsies). Thirty-one (24.8%) patients had a final malignant diagnosis (11 with invasive malignancy) and 28 (22.4%) showed atypia (including lobular carcinoma in situ). In those with core biopsies and a final malignant diagnosis, 12 cases were categorized as B5 (41.3%), three as B4 (10.3%), 12 as B3 (41.3%) and two as B2 (7%). Common histological features included obliterated ducts and chronic inflammation with, less frequently, neural hyperplasia (16.8%) and perineural invasion (3.2%).Conclusions The high incidence of atypia and malignancy identified in our study justifies our policy of removing all mammographically detected RS. We emphasize the utility of preoperative core biopsy evaluation in permitting one-stage surgical therapy in those with B5 diagnoses.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Bone morphogenetic protein 7 expression promotes bone metastasis formation in ductal breast carcinomas.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of aberrant mucins in lobular carcinoma with histiocytoid feature of the breast	The clinicopathological profiles of histiocytoid carcinoma of the breast have not been well examined because of their rarity and heterogenous groups of ductal and lobular origin. A large foamy or granular cytoplasm of histiocytoid carcinoma was characterized by abundant mucin, but the properties of mucin in histiocytoid carcinoma have also not been well investigated. We selected eight cases of histiocytoid features of invasive lobular carcinoma (HLC) and compared with 14 age- and tumor size-matched cases of classical invasive lobular carcinoma (CLC). Mucin profiles were significantly different between the two groups: a fair number of HLC cases were immunopositive for MUC2 and MUC5AC (75 and 50%, respectively); in contrast, almost all CLC cases showed both as negative. Both groups were immunopositive for MUC1 and negative for MUC4 and MUC6. The prognosis of HLC was significantly worse than CLC; HLC showed shorter disease-free time than CLC (p=0.0262). In particular, HLC with MUC2 and MUC5AC expressions showed significantly shorter disease-free time and survival time than lobular carcinoma without the expressions of MUC2 and MUC5AC (p=0.0055 and p=0.0060, respectively). Therefore, the expression of Cynon-mammary mucins', such as MUC2 and MUC5AC in HLC, is characteristic and indicates the more malignant transformation of tumor cells and poorer prognosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	High frequency of coexistence of columnar cell lesions, lobular neoplasia, and low grade ductal carcinoma in situ with invasive tubular carcinoma and invasive lobular carcinoma	This study was undertaken to determine the morphologic features and frequency of putative precursor lesions involved in the development of some pure forms of special types and low grade breast carcinoma. We reviewed 147 successive tumor cases, comprising tubular carcinoma (TC); pure type (n = 56) and mixed type (n = 20), invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC); classic type (n = 57), and tubutolobular carcinoma (TLC; n = 14). The presence of preinvasive lesions including columnar cell lesions (CCLs), usual epithelial hyperplasia, ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), and lobular neoplasia (LN) was determined. Estrogen receptor and E-cadherin immunohistochemistry was performed. Ninety-five percent (95%) of pure TCs had associated CCLs with the majority showing flat epithelial atypia. Atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH)/DCIS was present in 89% patients. Colocalization of CCL, ADH/DCIS, and TC was seen in 85% patients, all displaying the same cytologic-nuclear morphology in most cases. LN was seen in 16%. In ILC, 91% cases showed LN. CCL and ADH/DCIS were seen in 60% and 42% cases, respectively. E-cadherin was positive in TLC but reduced in TC and completely absent in ILC. In conclusion, our findings support the hypothesis that CCLs are associated with pure and mixed forms of TC, and that LN is involved in ILC development. Our observations suggest that these lesions represent family members of low grade precursor, in situ and invasive neoplastic lesions of the breast. Molecular studies are being performed to substantiate the hypothesis that tubular and lobular carcinomas have direct evolutionary links to CCLs and flat epithelial atypia.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The incidence of concurrent lobular neoplasia and columnar alterations in breast tissues		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Mammography misses lobular carcinomas with homogeneous tumor cell distribution: A target for new screening techniques		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Topoisomerase II-alpha gene copy number alterations in ERBB2-positive primary breast carcinomas: A fluorescence in situ hybridization study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evidence of evolution and intrinsic molecular relationship in a spectrum of morphological variants of invasive lobular carcinoma with variable E-cadherin status		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Keratin immunohistochemistry does not contribute to correct lymph node staging in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A newly proposed semi-automated method of grading invasive lobular carcinoma. A unifying concept and correlation with prognostic markers and patient survival		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prospective study of frozen section and rapid cytokeratin immunostaining for the intraoperative evaluation of axillary sentinel lymph nodes in breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Significance of flat epithelial atypia on mammotome core needle biopsy: should it be excised?	The aim of this study was to determine the morphologic types, associations, and significance of flat epithelial atypia (FEA) with or without atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH) in mammotome core needle biopsies. We evaluated the correlation of FEA in core biopsies with follow-up excision biopsies to predict the likelihood of upgrade to carcinoma. We also investigated the utility of Ki-67 in predicting which lesions were associated with carcinoma in the excisional biopsies. Core biopsies with a diagnosis of atypia were categorized as pure FEA, Pure ADH, or both. The following parameters were recorded: indication for core biopsies, presence of rnicrocalcifications, inflammation, and stromal changes. A total of 60 core biopsies from 56 patients were studied. Pure ADH, pure FEA, and concomitant FEA and ADH were seen in 13%, 23%, and 64% of core biopsies, respectively. The most common architectural pattern of FEA resembled blunt duct adenosis (52%), followed by cystically dilated ducts with secretions (38%) and apocrinc features (10%). Chronic inflammation and stromal changes were noted in 29% and 36% of FEA, respectively. Excisional biopsies in 48 of 56 patients demonstrated ductal carcinoma in situ and/or invasive carcinoma in 10 patients (21%), lobular carcinoma in situ or atypical lobular hyperplasia in 5 (11%), residual ADH in 11 (23%), and no atypia in 24 patients (50%). Three (21%) of 14 pure FEA upgraded to ductal carcinoma in situ and/or invasive carcinoma on excisional biopsy. The staining for Ki-67 in FEA/ADH was similar regardless of whether they were upgraded to carcinoma or not. In summary, we found a strong association between FEA and ADH, which may reflect a biologic progression. Most FEAs have a low-power appearance of a well-circumscribed group of ducts. Chronic inflammation and stromal changes are present in a subset of cases. Flat epithelial atypia shows a risk of upgrade to carcinoma similar to that of ADH and, hence, should be recognized and warrants a follow-up excision. (c) 2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic value of annexin A1 expression in ovarian cells.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Collagenous spherulosis with lobular carcinoma in situ: a potential diagnostic pitfall		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clonality in lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and metachronous clonality in lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and metachronous invasive breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Frequent but variable maintenance of CD34+stromal fibrocytes in invasive lobular breast carcinomas: Prognostic relevance?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CD34(+) fibrocytes are preserved in most invasive lobular carcinomas of the breast	It is generally agreed that invasive carcinomas of the breast consistently lack stromal CD34(+) fibrocytes. The 14 pertinent literature shows that this assumption is well based for invasive ductal carcinomas, but evidence of loss of stromal CD34(+) cells in lobular carcinomas is weak. We present a series of 22 invasive lobular carcinomas (ILCs) which, in contrast to invasive ductal carcinomas, display a gradual reduction of stromal CD34(+) fibrocytes. One third of the study population showed a completely preserved population of CD34(+) fibrocytes, in another third, this cell population was reduced in comparison to normal breast tissue, and in the remaining third, loss of CD34(+) fibrocytes comparable to that occurring in virtually all invasive ductal carcinomas was found. The present study shows that loss of CD34(+) fibrocytes is not a consistent feature of invasive carcinomas of the breast. Therefore, a preserved CD34(+) stromal cell population does not exclude malignancy, and analysis of the stromal CD34 expression should be handled with care when used as a diagnostic tool. (c) 2007 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Severe acute toxicity from whole breast radiotherapy in the setting of collagen vascular disease		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	mILC-ing the mouse mammary gland: A model for invasive lobular carcinoma	Mouse models that faithfully recapitulate human cancers are indispensable tools for studying the molecular mechanisms of tumorigenesis and testing potential anticancer therapies. In this issue of Cancer Cell, Derksen et al. describe a new mouse model that mimics multiple features of invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast (ILC), a histological subtype of human breast cancer for which no mouse model currently exists. This model further reveals an important causal link between E-cadherin loss and tumor initiation and metastasis and, in doing so, provides a valuable entree into the tumor-suppressive functions of E-cadherin as well as the molecular underpinnings of ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	C35 (C17orf37) is a novel tumor biomarker abundantly expressed in breast cancer	Identification of shared tumor-specific targets is useful in developing broadly applicable therapies. In a study designed to identify genes up-regulated in breast cancer, a cDNA clone corresponding to a novel gene C35 (C17orf37) was selected by representational difference analysis of tumor and normal human mammary cell lines. Abundant expression of C35 transcript in tumors was confirmed by Northern blot and real-time PCR. The C35 gene is located on chromosome 17q12, 505 nucleotides from the 3' end of the ERBB2 oncogene, the antigenic target for trastuzumab (Herceptin (TM)) therapy. The chromosomal arrangement of the genes encoding C35 and ERBB2 is tail to tail. An open reading frame encodes a 12-kDa protein of unknown function. Immunohistochemical analysis detected robust and frequent expression of C35 protein, including 32% of grade 1 and 66% of grades 2 and 3 infiltrating ductal carcinomas of the breast (in contrast to 20% overexpressing HER-2/neu), 38% of infiltrating lobular carcinoma (typically HER-2/neu negative), as well as tumors arising in other tissues. C35 was not detected in 38 different normal human tissues, except Leydig cells in the testes and trace levels in a small percentage of normal breast tissue samples. The distinct and favorable expression profile of C35 spanning early through late stages of disease, including high frequency of overexpression in various breast carcinoma, abundant expression in distant metastases, and either absence or low level expression in normal human tissues, warrants further investigation of the relevance of C35 as a biomarker and/or a target for development of broadly applicable cancer-specific therapies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Observation and clinical significance of adjuvant chemotherapy-induced amenorrhea in pre-menopausal breast cancer patients	Objective A retrospective analysis of 160 pre-menopausal breast cancer patients was carried out to elucidate the the menstrual outcome in those cases who had undergone adjuvant chemotherapy after surgery, and evaluate the relationship between chemotberapy-induced amenorrhea ( CIA) and recurrence of the disease. Methods 160 pre-menopausal breast cancer patients were collected, 62/159 (39. 0%) of them were node positive, 91/158 (57. 6%) were ER positive, and 95/155 (61.3%) were PR positive. 111 cases had infiltrative ductal carcinoma, 26 cases had infiltrative lobular carcinoma, and 22 cases with others. In 152 cases data were collected by face-to-face interview and 8 cases by phone conversation. Types and cycles of chemotherapy regimen as well as menstrual abnormalities were recorded before, during, and after chemotherapy completion. Follow up duration was 12 - 72 months after chemotherapy completion for all patients. Results 107 (66. 9%) developed CIA, 24 cases returned to normal menses (22.4%), 83 cases continued CIA during more than 12-month follow up 77. 6%). The rate of CIA increased with age ( P < 0.01). During the follow up, disease free survival DFS) rate was 85. 9% in CIA group and 79. 2% in non-CIA group, with no statistically significant difference. But in hormonal receptor positive patients, DFS was 80.0% in non-CIA and 90.1% in CIA, respectively ( P = 0. 04), showing a significant difference. Because of the small number of died cases, no analysis of the overall outcome was carried out. Conclusion Adjuvant chemotherapy causes ovarian function suppression, and may further leading to amenorrhoea. Women who experienced amenorrhoea after chemotherapy had a significantly better disease-free survival ( DFS) rate showed by univariate analysis than women who continued normal menstruation. Chemotherapy is insufficient therapy for very young patients who are in high risk with hormone responsive disease, particularly when chemotherapy fails to induce amenorrhea. Further research is needed to evaluate interventional chemotherapy to improve the quality of life in women with early stage breast cancer who experienced ovarian toxicity. The post -chemotherapy menstruation status is a clinically valuable, objective and salient marker for sufficient endocrine effect of cbemotherapy in ER/PR-positive premenopausal patients.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A comprehensive study of chromosome 16q in invasive ductal and lobular breast carcinoma using array CGH	We analysed chromosome 16q in 106 breast cancers using tiling-path array-comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH). About 80% of ductal cancers (IDCs) and all lobular cancers (ILCs) lost at least part of 16q. Grade I (GI) IDCs and ILCs often lost the whole chromosome arm. Grade II (GII) and grade III ( GIII) IDCs showed less frequent whole-arm loss, but often had complex changes, typically small regions of gain together with larger regions of loss. The boundaries of gains/losses tended to cluster, common sites being 54.5-55.5 Mb and 57.4-58.8 Mb. Overall, the peak frequency of loss (83% cancers) occurred at 61.9-62.9 Mb. We also found several 'minimal' regions of loss/gain. However, no mutations in candidate genes (TRADD, CDH5, CDH8 and CDH11) were detected. Cluster analysis based on copy number changes identified a large group of cancers that had lost most of 16q, and two smaller groups ( one with few changes, one with a tendency to show copy number gain). Although all morphological types occurred in each cluster group, IDCs ( especially GII/GIII) were relatively over-represented in the smaller groups. Cluster groups were not independently associated with survival. Use of tiling-path aCGH prompted re-evaluation of the hypothetical pathways of breast carcinogenesis. ILCs have the simplest changes on 16q and probably diverge from the IDC lineage close to the stage of 16q loss. Higher-grade IDCs probably develop from low-grade lesions in most cases, but there remains evidence that some GII/GIII IDCs arise without a GI precursor.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The impact of lobular carcinoma in situ in association with invasive breast cancer on the rate of local recurrence in patients with early-stage breast cancer treated with breast-conserving therapy	Purpose: The significance of lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) associated with invasive breast cancer in patients undergoing breast-conserving therapy (BCT) remains controversial. We examined the impact of the presence and extent of LCIS associated with invasive breast cancer on clinical outcome in BCT patients.Methods and Materials: From 1980 to 1996, 607 cases of invasive breast cancer were treated with BCT. All slides were reviewed by a single pathologist. Positive margin was defined as presence of invasive carcinoma/ductal carcinoma in situ at the inked margin. Multiple clinical, pathologic, and treatment-related variables were analyzed for their association with ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) and true recurrence/marginal miss (TR/MM). Median follow-up was 8.7 years.Results: Fifty-six patients (9%) had LCIS in association with invasive cancer. On univariate analysis, positive final margin, positive/no reexcision, smaller maximum specimen dimension, and the presence of LCIS predicted for IBTR. The 10-year IBTR rate was 14% for cases with LCIS vs. 7% without LCIS (p = 0.04). On multivariate analysis, positive margin (p < 0.01), positive/no reexcision (p = 0.04), and presence of LCIS (p = 0.02) remained independently associated with IBTR; positive margin (p < 0.01) and LCIS (p = 0.04) were also associated with TR/MM failure. When examining only cases with negative final margins, the presence of LCIS remained associated with higher IBTR and TR/MM rates (p < 0.01).Conclusion: The presence of LCIS was independently associated with higher rate of IBTR and TR/MM after BCT for invasive breast cancer. LCIS may have significant premalignant potential and progress to an invasive IBTR at the site of index lesion. The adequacy of excision of LCIS associated with invasive carcinoma should be considered in patients undergoing BCT. (c) 2006 Elsevier Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comprehensive molecular genetic analysis reveals FGFR1 as a potential therapeutic target for lobular breast carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Incidence and risk factors associated with bilateral breast cancer in area with early age diagnosis but low incidence of primary breast cancer: analysis of 10-year longitudinal cohort in Taiwan	This study aims to examine the incidence and risk factors of bilateral breast cancer in area with low incidence rate. A total of 120 and 1902 women with bilateral and unilateral breast cancers were enrolled; various factors, including those concerning their medical history and life style, were extracted. Using Kaplan-Meier method, we calculate the cumulative incidence of contralateral breast cancer. The results show as follows. The cumulative incidences of contralateral breast cancer at 1, 3, 5 years after diagnosis of first breast cancer were 1.15, 1.94, and 2.97%, respectively. The statistically significant risk factors included menopause (Hazard Ratio (HR) =1.56, (1.00-2.42)), invasive lobular carcinoma (HR=2.98, (1.35-6.56)), receiving chemotherapy (HR=2.21, (1.43-3.42)) and/or radiotherapy (HR=3.32, (2.19-5.05) and a protective factor was tamoxifen therapy (HR=0.5 (0.34-0.74). Size of the second occurred tumour (2.97 cm) tended to be smaller than the first one (3.58 cm) with borderline statistical significance (p=0.0731). Comparing to the existing data on Western countries, we find a higher risk for developing contralateral breast cancer in Taiwan where a low incidence of first breast cancer rate with early age diagnosis is noted. It suggests that first primary breast tumour with early age of onset and lobular carcinoma are found more likely to develop bilateral breast cancers.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunoprofile of invasive tubular carcinoma, tubulolobular and invasive lobular carcinoma and their coexistent putative precursor lesions		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of gene expression profiles in normal and tumor breast tissues		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma of the breast. A ten year retrospective study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PIK3CA in breast carcinoma: A mutational analysis of sporadic and hereditary cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The decision for excision		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical study of Aurora-A antibody and P53 antibody in benign and malignant lesions of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Analysis of gene expression in invasive lobular versus ductal carcinomas of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular neoplasia in breast core needle biopsy specimens is associated with a low risk of ductal carcinoma in situ or invasive carcinoma on subsequent excision	To address the significance of lobular neoplasia (LN) in breast core needle biopsy specimens, we prospectively obtained LN cases and correlated results of subsequent tissue sampling. LN was diagnosed by core needle biopsy in 467 women; in 101 (21.6%), invasive carcinoma (IC) or ductal carcinoma in situ (DUS) was diagnosed concurrently. Two patients (0.4%) had previous diagnoses of IC or DUS, and 17 (3.6%) had a concurrent diagnosis of contralateral IC or DUS. Of 366 patients without a concurrent diagnosis of IC or DUS, subsequent tissue diagnoses were available for 156 cases (42.6%). Of 60 cases of LN and atypical ductal hyperplasia on the biopsy, 5 had IC and 10 had DUS on the excision (total, 25%). Of 4 women with LN and a mucocele-like lesion on the biopsy, none had IC or DUS on excision. Of 92 with LN alone on the biopsy, 7 had IC (6) or DCIS (1) on excision. Two cases were in sites away from the biopsy site, 3 in subsequent excisions of the biopsy site, and 2 after previous excision of the biopsy site without finding IC or DCIS. Although LN is associated with a high overall rate of IC and DUS (30%), excision of the biopsy site for women with LN alone on core needle biopsy has a very low rate of IC and DUS in our center Women in whom biopsy sites are excised are still at risk for subsequent DUS and IC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma of the breast metastatic to the uterus in a patient under adjuvant anastrozole therapy	This is the first report of breast carcinoma metastatic to the endometrium in a patient on adjuvant anastrozole therapy. We report a case of metastatic lobular carcinoma of the breast in a 63-year-old patient on adjuvant anastrozole therapy for 8 months. She was asymptomatic and metastatic endometrium was diagnosed after transvaginal ultrasound revealed suspicious findings along with elevated Ca 15-3 levels. As further work up showed no other metastatic sites her uterus was taken out along with her ovaries and pelvic lymph nodes. Uterine metastases should be kept in mind in asymptomatic patients on anastrozole therapy. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Nek2 kinase in chromosome instability and cancer	Aneuploidy and chromosome instability are two of the most common abnormalities in cancer cells. They arise through defects in cell division and, specifically, in the unequal segregation of chromosomes between daughter cells during mitosis. A number of cell cycle dependent protein kinases have been identified that control mitotic progression and chromosome segregation. Some of these localize to the centrosome and regulate mitotic spindle formation. One such protein is Nek2, a member of the NIMA-related serine/threonine kinase family. Data are emerging that Nek2 is abnormally expressed in a wide variety of human cancers. In this review, we summarize current knowledge on the expression, regulation and function of Nek2, consider how Nek2 may contribute to chromosome instability, and ask whether it might make an attractive target for chemotherapeutic intervention in human cancer. (c) 2005 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Selecting patients for breast-conserving therapy - The importance of lobular histology	BACKGROUND. Concerns exist regarding the ability to select patients with lobular carcinoma for breast-conserving therapy (BCT) using mammography. The purpose of this study was to compare the conversion rate from BCT to mastectomy among patients with lobular (ILC) and ductal carcinoma (IDC), and to compare the number of resections needed to obtain negative margins.METHODS. In all, 349 patients with pure or mixed ILC were identified from a database and 318 were successfully matched to 2 controls with IDC on the basis of year of diagnosis, menopausal status, and stage of disease. Conditional logistic regression was used to control for matching.RESULTS. Patients with ILC were older, had larger tumors (2.6 vs. 2.1 cm; P <.001), and were more likely to have contraindications to BCT (25% vs. 20%). In patients thought to be candidates for BCT, no difference in success rate was noted on the basis of histologic type after controlling for age and stage. In those undergoing BCT, no difference in the number of procedures was seen on the bases of histology after adjustment for age and stage.CONCLUSIONS. Patients with ILC are not more likely to fail BCT than those with IDC, nor do they require more operations to obtain negative margins. These results do not support the use of more extensive preoperative evaluation such as magnetic resonance imaging in patients with ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	LKB1 protein expression in human breast cancer	Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is caused by germline mutations in the LKB1/STK11 gene. Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is associated with an increased risk of developing intestinal and extraintestinal cancers, including pancreatic, lung, and breast carcinomas. LKB1 gene inactivation has recently been demonstrated in a subset of sporadic pancreatic and lung carcinomas. The role of the LKB1 gene in sporadic breast carcinomas remains unclear, though recent studies suggest inactivation only within papillary carcinomas. Using a commercially available polyclonal antibody that has been shown to mirror LKB1 genetic status in gastrointestinal and pulmonary carcinomas, the authors performed IHC on a large series of breast cancers using tissue microarrays (TMAs). All abnormal TMA results were confirmed using whole sections; specifically, whole sections from the donor blocks of lesions demonstrating diminished or absent LKB1 protein expression on TMA were evaluated to compare labeling of the lesion with that of the surrounding normal breast. In all cases, normal breast epithelium demonstrated strong cytoplasmic labeling (providing an internal positive control), whereas the stroma was nonreactive. Luminal cells typically labeled more strongly than myoepithelial cells. Among 70 invasive ductal carcinomas, 3 (4.3%) showed complete loss of LKB1 labeling, whereas 6 others (8.6%) showed diminished labeling. Of the eight intraductal carcinoma lesions adjacent to these invasive carcinomas, one (12.5%) showed complete loss of LKB1 labeling and one other (12.5%) showed diminished labeling; these results were identical to those of the adjacent invasive carcinomas. One of 10 (10%) hematogenous metastases of mammary carcinoma showed loss of LKB1 labeling. Nine of the 10 invasive carcinomas and both of the ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) cases showing loss of or diminished LKB 1 expression were of high grade. In contrast, all 13 pure nonpapillary DCIS lesions, all 5 invasive lobular carcinomas and 3 accompanying lobular carcinoma in situ lesions, all 7 papillary DCIS lesions, and all 3 papillomas evaluated showed intact LKB1 labeling. Therefore, although frequent methylation of the LKBI gene has been reported in papillary carcinomas of the breast, the authors did not find loss of protein expression in these lesions. Instead, it was found that loss of LKB1 protein expression occurs in a subset of high-grade in situ and invasive mammary carcinomas. The authors found LKB1 gene methylation in several of these invasive carcinomas. Given recent Western blot results indicating that diminished LKB1 expression in breast carcinomas correlates with shorter relapse-free survival, LKB1 IHC merits evaluation as a potential prognostic marker for breast carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular pathology of breast apocrine carcinomas: A protein expression signature specific for benign apocrine metaplasia	Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease that encompasses a wide range of histopathological types including: invasive ductal carcinoma, lobular carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, mucinous carcinoma, tubular carcinoma, and apocrine carcinoma among others. Pure apocrine carcinomas represent about 0.5% of all invasive breast cancers according to the Danish Breast Cancer Cooperative Group Registry, and despite the fact that they are morphologically distinct from other breast lesions, there are at present no standard molecular criteria available for their diagnosis. In addition, the relationship between benign apocrine changes and breast carcinoma is unclear and has been a matter of discussion for many years. Recent proteome expression profiling studies of breast apocrine macrocysts, normal breast tissue, and breast tumours have identified specific apocrine biomarkers [15-hydroxy-prostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH) and hydroxymethylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase (HMG-CoA reductase)] present in early and advanced apocrine lesions. These biomarkers in combination with proteins found to be characteristically upregulated in pure apocrine carcinomas (psoriasin, S100A9, and p53) provide a protein expression signature distinctive for benign apocrine metaplasias and apocrine cystic lesions. These studies have also presented compelling evidence for a direct link, through the expression of the prostaglandin degrading enzyme 15-PGDH, between early apocrine lesions and pure apocrine carcinomas. Moreover, specific antibodies against the components of the expression signature have identified precursor lesions in the linear histological progression to apocrine carcinoma. Finally, the identification of proteins that characterize the early stages of mammary apocrine differentiation such as 15-PGDH, HMG-CoA reductase, and cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) has opened a window of opportunity for pharmacological intervention, not only in a therapeutic manner but also in a chemopreventive setting. Here we review published and recent results in the context of the current state of research on breast apocrine cancer. (c) 2006 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The value of cytokeratin immunohistochemistry in the evaluation of axillary sentinel lymph nodes in patients with lobular breast carcinoma	Background: Cytokeratin immunohistochemistry (IHC) reveals a higher rate of occult lymph node metastases among lobular carcinomas than among ductal breast cancers. IHC is widely used but is seldom recommended for the evaluation of sentinel lymph nodes in breast cancer patients.Objective: To assess the value of cytokeratin IHC for the detection of metastases in sentinel lymph nodes of patients with invasive lobular carcinoma.Methods: The value of IHC, the types of metastasis found by this method, and the involvement of nonsentinel lymph nodes were analysed in a multi-institutional cohort of 449 patients with lobular breast carcinoma, staged by sentinel lymph node biopsy and routine assessment of the sentinel lymph nodes by IHC when multilevel haematoxylin and eosin staining revealed no metastasis.Results: 189 patients (42%) had some type of sentinel node involvement, the frequency of this increasing with increasing tumour size. IHC was needed for identification of 65 of these cases: 17 of 19 isolated tumour cells, 40 of 64 micrometastases, and 8 of 106 larger metastases were detected by this means. Non-sentinel-node involvement was noted in 66 of 161 cases undergoing axillary dissection. Although isolated tumour cells were not associated with further lymph node involvement, sentinel node positivity detected by IHC was associated with further nodal metastases in 12 of 50 cases (0.24), a proportion that is higher than previously reported for breast cancer in general.Conclusions: IHC is recommended for the evaluation of sentinel nodes from patients with lobular breast carcinoma, as the micrometastases or larger metastases demonstrated by this method are often associated with a further metastatic nodal load.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PLC-beta 2 is highly expressed in breast cancer and is associated with a poor outcome: A study on tissue microarrays	Despite the identification of many putative biomarkers in breast cancer, a specific pattern of proteins to be used as a prognosticator is not well defined. A growing body of evidence supports the role of phospholipase C (PLC) in the invasion and metastasis of different tumors, including breast cancer. To assess whether the expression of specific PLC isoforms correlates with malignancy-related features of human breast tumors and, hence, could have prognostic significance, an immunohistochemical analysis of PLC-beta 2 was performed on tissue microarrays and the relationship between PLC-beta 2 expression and biological and clinicopathological factors was assessed. The analysis of 77 samples of breast tumors with different histotypes revealed that PLC-beta 2 is highly expressed in a large majority of the analyzed cancer tissue, particularly ductal and lobular carcinomas, in comparison with normal breast. The expression of PLC-beta 2 in primary tumors correlated with size, proliferation index and final grade, while no significant relationship was observed with nodal status or estrogen receptor levels, or with the expression of tumor suppressor p53. Remarkably, high PLC-beta 2 levels in primary tumors predict an unfavourable prognosis, suggesting the contribution of this protein to the progression of human mammary carcinomas. Our data indicate that PLC-beta 2 expression correlates highly with breast cancer malignancy and suggest that it can be included, as an independent marker, among the prognostic indicators in current use.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Identification of new Tumor Associated Antigens (TAA) for mammary cancer immunological prevention.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evidence that coexistent synchronous ipsilateral lobular and ductal carcinoma are related clonal processes.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Frequent overexpression of prostate derived ets factor (PDEF) protein in breast cancer progression.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast pathology co-occurrence in stratified populations, implications for breast cancer development in different populations.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Characterization of a HER2/neu over-expressing lobular carcinoma and mechanisms contributing to the therapeutic efficacy of Iressa in vitro and in vivo.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evidence that coexistent synchronous ipsilateral lobular & ductal carcinoma are related clonal processes	Background: Biopsy-proved in situ lobular carcinoma (LCIS) portends increased risk for subsequent invasive carcinoma, which often has a ductal phenotype. A plausible explanation is that such in situ (DCIS) & invasive ductal carcinoma (InvDC) is not a separate neoplastic process but is genetically related to LCIS. If true, we expect coexistent lobular & ductal carcinoma to have highly concordant genomic profiles. To test this hypothesis, we compared DNA abnormalities, as defined by array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH), in concurrent LCIS, DCIS &, in some cases, InvDC.Design: We used a 6,912 BAC clone microarray to identify & map gains & losses in DNA from cells microdissected from paraffin embedded tissues (PETs). Using our new aCGH pre-processing software, specifically adapted to PETs, we calculated the number of concordant clone specific changes in each component of synchronous LCIS & DCIS (N=4) & LCIS, DCIS & InvDC (N=3).Results: There were many concordant clone specific gains & losses in coexistent LCIS, DCIS & InvDC in each patient; similarity was much higher between different components within a patient than between patients.Conclusion: Despite the clearly different morphologic appearances that have conventionally defined them, LCIS, DCIS & InvDC occurring in the same breast are not independent events but arise from a common abnormal progenitor. In part funded under a grant from the Pennsylvania Department of Health which specifically disclaims responsibility for any analyses, interpretations or conclusions.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast conserving therapy (BCT) for stage I-II breast cancer in elderly. Analysis of 927 cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunophenotype similarity and high frequency of co-existence of columnar cell lesions, lobular neoplasia, and low grade DCIS with invasive tubular carcinoma and invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Aberrant staining in Paget's disease of the nipple		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparative expressed sequence hybridization reveals differential gene expression in morphological breast cancer subtypes	In this study, comparative expressed sequence hybridization (CESH) has been used to compare gene expression patterns in three morphologically different breast cancer subtypes: classic-type invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC), poorly differentiated ERBB2-negative invasive ductal carcinoma-not otherwise specified (IDC-NOS), and poorly differentiated ERBB2-positive IDC-NOS. CESH allows global detection of chromosomal regions with differential gene expression in a way similar to that of comparative genomic hybridization (CGH). Eight cases of each breast cancer subtype were included in the study. For each subtype, two pools of four cases each were constructed. CESH was used to compare both pools within the same morphological subtype, followed by a comparison of pools belonging to different subtypes. This revealed three chromosomal regions that were differentially expressed in ductal and lobular carcinomas, including relative overexpression at 8q13-q23 and 16q22, and relative underexpression at 8p21-p22. In addition, an expression signature characterized by relative overexpression at 3q24-q26.3, 14q23-31, 17q12, and 20q12-13 was identified for ERBB2-positive IDC-NOS. In summary, CESH analysis highlights chromosomal regions of differential gene expression that are associated with morphologically defined breast cancer subtypes and suggests that regions on chromosome 8 are of interest in the discrimination between ductal and lobular carcinomas. In addition, using CESH, it was possible to identify an ERBB2 expression signature, comprising four chromosomal regions with potential significance in the aggressive behaviour of ERBB2-positive IDC-NOS. Copyright (c) 2006 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The impact of large sections and 3D technique on the study of lobular in situ and invasive carcinoma of the breast	The aim of the present study was to investigate the type of intraglandular spread of lobular neoplasia (LN) and its relationship with invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) through three-dimensional (3D) stereomicroscopy and analyses of large histological sections (histological macrosections, HM). Fifteen cases showing multiple foci of in situ LN and/or ILC (1 pure LN, 12 LN+ILC, and 2 pure ILC) constituted the basis of the present study. Thirteen cases were treated with mastectomy (including the case of pure LN), and two cases were treated with quadrantectomy. In all cases, large parallel 5-mm-thick sections were embedded in paraffin and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E). Selected large paraffin blocks were investigated with stereomicroscopy. The H&E-stained HM were then compared with the corresponding tissues examined using stereomicroscopy. (1) LN was multicentric in nine cases. (2) The average maximum distance among LN foci was 37.9 mm, while the average maximum distance among ILC areas was 58.2 mm. (3) On 3D examination, LN-filled acini and ducts appeared dilated. When "Pagetoid spread" was present, the ducts were lined by a continuous layer of neoplastic epithelium. (4) No anastomoses between lobes were observed in the two cases where glandular trees were visualized. (5) In 12 cases, ILC areas enveloped ducts and acini affected by LN-an association that was more than coincidental. (6) Multicentric ILC areas not associated with LN indicated vascular spread. It is concluded that the information given in LN and ILC, obtained by analyses of large histological sections, is far superior than that obtained by analyses of conventional histological sections, which underestimate multiple distant small foci of invasion. 3D sections are useful in understanding the architecture of specific lesions.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PIK3CA mutation and histological type in breast carcinoma: high frequency of mutations in lobular carcinoma	Mutations in the PIK3CA gene have recently been reported in different human neoplasms, including breast cancer. This paper reports the results of a systematic analysis of PIK3CA mutations in different histological types of breast carcinoma. One hundred and eighty invasive breast carcinomas, comprising 74 ductal, 56 lobular, 22 mucinous, 20 medullary, and eight papillary, were selected on the basis of their histological type in a consecutive series of 780 breast cancers. Exons 1-20 of the PIK3CA gene were subjected to SSCP analysis followed by direct sequencing. PIK3CA mutations were observed in 46 (26%) of the 180 tumours examined: 23 (50%) mutations were located in exon 9, and 23 (50%) in exon 20. Mutations were frequent in lobular (46%), less frequent in ductal (22%), and uncommon in medullary (10%), mucinous (5%), and papillary tumours (12%) (P = 0.0002). Mutations in exon 9 were more frequent in lobular carcinomas (30% of cases) than in the other histological types (less than 5% of cases) (p = 0.00014). No significant differences were observed in the distribution of mutations in exon 20. There was no significant correlation between PIK3CA mutations and other clinicopathological and biological variables, including age, tumour size, lymph node metastases, oestrogen receptor (ER) status, progesterone receptor (PgR) status, p53 gene mutations, and p53 protein expression. The findings indicate that in invasive breast carcinomas, PIK3CA alterations are mainly present in lobular and ductal tumours, whereas the other histological types, known to be associated with a favourable prognosis, show a very low incidence of PIK3CA mutations. Copyright (c) 2005 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Study of the expression of Tn antigen in different types of human breast cancer cells using VVA-B-4 lectin	VVA-B-4 lectin was used to investigate the differences in Tn antigen expression in tissues of different types of human breast cancer (benign lesions, carcinoma in situ, invasive carcinoma) and in normal tissues neighboring lobular carcinoma. Locations in which Tn antigen was expressed were identified using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase labeling system. Tissues collected during cosmetic procedures and classified as normal were completely negative, except for one case. Benign proliferative changes including fibroadenoma, apocrine and cylindrical metaplasia showed a very weak positive reaction, although strongly positive cells were also observed. The reaction in non-invasive cases of atypical hyperplasia was diversified depending on site. Intralobular hyperplasia was characterized by a particularly high percentage of labeled cells. A majority (up to 80%) of ductal and lobular carcinoma in situ showed very strong or moderate staining. In invasive cancers, there were Conspicuous differences between stage of cancer development and tendency towards a decrease in intensely labeled cell count in the most advanced stages. In normal tissues in the direct neighborhood of carcinoma in situ, the cytoplasm of 40% of cells was strongly labeled. However, the findings for normal tissues in the close vicinity of invasive cancer were the most surprising, since there was either no or only very weak positive reaction. It can be concluded that glycosylation modifications during carcinogenesis, as demonstrated by the presence of Tn epitope, develop very early, before any destructive changes in proliferation/apoptosis or cell differentiation become discernible.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The management of atypical lobular hyperplasia and lobular carcinoma in-situ diagnosed by core biopsy: is surgical excision necessary?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive ductal and invasive lobular carcinoma show a similar amplification profile of chromosomal markers prognostic for breast carcinoma recurrence.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS). Indolent disease or precursor of invasive breast cancer (IBC)? Analysis of 330 cases.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A review of the pathological features of 164 cases of lobular carcinoma in situ - to determine diagnostic accuracy.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Primary systemic therapy of invasive lobular carcinoma: is there a role for chemotherapy?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Rate of re-excision with breast-conserving surgery in stage I and II breast cancer patients: a retrospective study.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical patterns of breast cancer metastatic to gynecologic organs and peritoneum.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Is lobular carcinoma in situ as a component of breast carcinoma a risk factor for local failure after breast-conserving therapy? Results of a matched pair analysis	BACKGROUND. The goals of the current study were to compare the clinicopathologic presentations of patients with lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) as a component of breast carcinoma who were treated with breast conserving surgery (BCS) and radiation therapy (RT) with those of patients without LCIS as part of their primary tumor and to report rates of local control by overall cohort and specifically in patients with positive margins for LCIS and multifocal LCIS.METHODS. Sixty-four patients with Stages 0-II breast carcinoma with LCIS (LCIS-containing tumor group, LCTG) that had received BCS+RT treatment at the University of Michigan between 1989 and 2003 were identified. These patients were matched to 121 patients without LCIS (control group) in a 1:2 ratio.RESULTS. The median follow-up time was 3.9 years (range, 0.3-18.9 yrs). There were no significant differences between the two groups with regard to clinical, pathologic, or treatment-related variables or in mammographic presentation, with the exception of a higher proportion of the LCTG patients who received adjuvant hormonal therapy (P = 0.01). The rates of local control at 5 years were 100% in the LCTG group and 99.1 % in the control group (P = 0.86). The presence of LCIS at the margins and the size and presence of multifocal LCIS did not alter the rate of local control.CONCLUSIONS. The extent of LCIS and its presence at the margins did not reduce the excellent rates of local control after BCS+RT. The data suggest that LCIS in the tumor specimen, even when multifocal, should not affect selection of patients for BCS and whole-breast RT.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic value of annexin A1 expression in myoepithelial cells for the detection of breast cancer.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular evaluation of multiple breast carcinomas: Ipsilateral and contralateral metastasis vs. separate primaries		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical significance of lobular neoplasia on core biopsy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Extensive sampling of the surgical specimens is essential for accurate T-staging in patients with infiltrating lobular carcinoma of breast: A comparative study of gross versus microscopic tumor sizes		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CISH is an alternative method to FISH in determining HER2/neu status on core biopsies		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Her2/neu expression (IHC), amplification (FISH), and chromosome 17 aneuploidy in invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Low incidence of mamographically detected microcalcification in breast cancer patients with lobular histology may be attributed to low levels of osteopontin		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaulation off phospho-mTOR (Mamalian Target of Rapamycin) expression in benign, proliferative and malignant epithelial lesions of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A correlation between primary breast tumors stage T1c and T2 and presence and extent of sentinel lymph nodes involvement		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Extensive sampling of the surgical specimens is essential for accurate T-staging in patients with infiltrating lobular carcinoma of breast: A comparative study of gross versus microscopic tumor sizes		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Her2/neu expression (IHC), amplification (FISH), and chromosome 17 aneuploidy in invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Suspicious for malignancy in fine needle aspiration of breast: Reasons and clinical implications		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Separate cavity margin sampling at the time of initial breast lumpectomy significantly reduces the need for reexcisions	In breast conservation therapy, the margin status of the specimen predicts local recurrence and determines the need for reexcision. Many surgeons now take, at the time of lumpectomy, multiple separate "cavity margins" (CM) (the entire wall of the residual cavity) as final margins that supersede the oriented lumpectomy margins (LMs). We studied the efficacy of this method in 126 patients (23 with ductal carcinoma in situ [DCIS] only and 103 with invasive carcinoma with or without DCIS) who had an oriented lumpectomy specimen and also had four to six additional CMs. The tumors were evaluated for the following: size, grade, LM status (distance of tumor from margin and, if involved, extent of involvement), vascular invasion, lymph node status, and presence or absence of extensive intraductal component. The additional CM specimens were evaluated for residual carcinoma (if any) and its distance from the inked true margins, and the results were correlated with the corresponding LMs. Only approximately 50% of patients (52 of 103) with histologically positive LMs (defined as carcinoma within 2 turn of the inked surface) had residual carcinoma in their CMs. Additional CM sampling rendered the overall final margin status histologically negative in 61 of 103 (59%) cases with histologically positive LMs, therefore significantly reducing the need for reexcision. Younger patient age, higher number of positive LMs, high tumor grade, and the presence of extensive intraductal component were predictive of residual carcinoma in CM specimens, whereas the distance of carcinoma from the inked surface and the extent of tumor involvement of histologically positive LMs were not. Because CM specimens taken from patients with histologically positive LMs usually lack tumor, we suspect that many positive LMs are likely false positives. Possible factors accounting for false-positive LMs include seepage of ink into crevices of the specimen promoted by excessive inking, tumor friability promoting displacement of tumor into ink, manipulation of specimens for radiographs, and retraction artifact.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytomorphology as a risk predictor: Experience with fine needle aspiration biopsy, nipple fluid aspiration, and ductal lavage	Primary prevention of breast cancer requires identification and elimination of cancer-causing agents, which is an incredibly difficult task to follow. Secondary prevention involves screening individuals who are at increased risk for breast cancer in hopes that early intervention will affect survival. In the 1980s, chemoprevention received serious attention. This approach was aimed at reducing cancer risk by administration of natural or synthetic clinical compounds that prevent, reverse, or suppress carcinogenesis in individuals at increased risk for cancer. It was not until 1998, however, when the first report from the National Surgical Adjunct Breast and Bowel Project (Breast Cancer Prevention Trial BCPT; P-1) randomized clinical trial appeared in the literature supporting the hypothesis that breast cancer can be prevented. This study showed that administration of tamoxifen reduced the risk for invasive and noninvasive breast cancer by almost 50% in all age groups. With the current availability of tamoxifen as a chemopreventive agent and with the increasing emphasis on early breast cancer detection and prevention, more women seek consultation to determine their risk for breast cancer. However, in the absence of any detectable breast lesion, clinically and mammographically, only a few women may volunteer to have their breasts sampled by surgical biopsy for risk assessment. Other non-surgical procedures include fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB), nipple aspirate fluid (NAF) and the recently introduced procedure, ductal lavage. These techniques may provide better alternatives. These minimally invasive procedures are capable of recruiting cellular material for cytomorphologic interpretation and biomarker studies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Leptin expression in human ductal and lobular breast carcinoma.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lymphangiogenesis does not occur in breast cancer	Breast cancer metastasis predominantly occurs via lymphatic vessels. However, the study of lymphatic vessels and lyrnphangiogenesis has been hampered by lack of specific markers. Recently, antibodies directed against M2A (D2-40), Podoplanin, and Prox-1 that specifically mark lymphatic vessels in paraffin-embedded sections have become available. These were used to study lymphangiogenesis in archival paraffin sections of normal breast (n = 23), fibrocystic disease (n = 7), ductal carcinoma in situ (n = 32), invasive ductal carcinoma (n = 50), and invasive lobular carcinoma (n = 5). In addition, endothelial proliferation in lymphatic vessels was analyzed by dual-color immunohistochemistry with D2-40 and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). Expression of D2-40, Prox-1, and Podoplanin was seen in lymphatic vessels but not in blood vessels. Lymphatic vessels were seen in the peritumoral area and as "entrapped" intratumoral vessels adjacent to preexisting normal lobules and ducts. Unlike angiogenesis, there was no increase of lymphatic vessel density in association with neoplastic transformation. On the contrary, a marked reduction in intratumoral lymphatic vessel density was seen in comparison to normal breast tissue, fibrocystic disease, and ductal carcinoma in situ (P = 0.0001). There was an increase in periturnoral lymphatic vessel density as compared with normal breast (P = 0.0001). However, the endothelial cells in the "entrapped" or the periturnoral lymphatic vessels did not show any expression of PCNA indicating minimal or no proliferative activity. This was in contrast to the strong expression seen in adjacent tumor cells and blood vessel endothelial cells. Thus, lymph angiogenesis was not evident when studied by lymphatic vessel density or by lymph vessel endothelial proliferation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pathology parameters and adjuvant tamoxifen response in a randomised premenopausal breast cancer trial	Background: Subgroups of breast cancer that have an impaired response to endocrine treatment, despite hormone receptor positivity, are still poorly defined. Breast cancer can be subdivided according to standard pathological parameters including histological type, grade, and assessment of proliferation. These parameters are the net result of combinations of genetic alterations effecting tumour behaviour and could potentially reflect subtypes that respond differently to endocrine treatment.Aims: To investigate the usefulness of these parameters as predictors of the response to tamoxifen in premenopausal women with breast cancer.Materials/methods: Clinically established pathological parameters were assessed and related to the tamoxifen response in 500 available tumour specimens from 564 premenopausal patients with breast cancer randomised to either two years of tamoxifen or no treatment with 14 years of follow up. Proliferation was further evaluated by immunohistochemical Ki-67 expression.Results: Oestrogen receptor positive ductal carcinomas responded as expected to tamoxifen, whereas the difference in recurrence free survival between control and tamoxifen treated patients was less apparent in the relatively few lobular carcinomas. For histological grade, there was no obvious difference in treatment response between the groups. The relation between proliferation and tamoxifen response seemed to be more complex, with a clear response in tumours with high and low proliferation, whereas tumours with intermediate proliferation defined by Ki-67 responded more poorly.Conclusions: Clinically established pathology parameters seem to mirror the endocrine treatment response and could potentially be valuable in future treatment decisions for patients with breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical characteristics of different histologic types of breast cancer	Breast cancer is a heterogeneous disease, though little is known about some of its rarer forms, including certain histologic types. Using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program data on 135 157 invasive breast cancer cases diagnosed from 1992 to 2001, relationships between nine histologic types of breast cancer and various tumour characteristics were assessed. Among women aged 50 - 89 years at diagnosis, lobular and ductal/lobular carcinoma cases were more likely to be diagnosed with stage III/ IV, >= 5.0 cm, and node-positive tumours compared to ductal carcinoma cases. Mucinous, comedo, tubular, and medullary carcinomas were less likely to present at an advanced stage. Lobular, ductal/ lobular, mucinous, tubular, and papillary carcinomas were less likely, and comedo, medullary, and inflammatory carcinomas were more likely to be oestrogen receptor ( ER) negative/ progesterone receptor ( PR) negative and high grade ( notably, 68.2% of medullary carcinomas were ER - PR - vs 19.3% of ductal carcinomas). In general, similar differences were observed among women diagnosed at age 30 - 49 years. Inflammatory carcinomas are associated with more aggressive tumour phenotypes, and mucinous, tubular, and papillary tumours are associated with less aggressive phenotypes. The histologic types of breast cancer studied here differ greatly in their clinical presentations, and the differences in their hormone receptor profiles and grades point to their likely different aetiologies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The prognostic and predictive significance of oestrogen receptor beta in lobular carcinoma in situ		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma in situ: Expression of chromosome 16q genes CDH1, DPEP1, DERPC and CTCF		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical study of androgen receptors in breast carcinoma. Evidence of their frequent expression in lobular carcinoma	Androgens and androgen receptors (AR) are involved in the pathogenesis of breast cancer. Epidemiological studies have shown a significant association between the risk of breast cancer and androgens. However, the functional role and clinical value of AR expression in breast carcinoma have still not been clearly defined. The present study was set up to investigate the prevalence of ARs in a series of consecutive invasive breast carcinomas (IBCs) and to evaluate the patterns of AR phenotypes in a series of selected invasive lobular carcinomas (ILCs). Among the 250 consecutive IBCs (consisting of 212 ductal and 38 lobular neoplasms), AR immunoreactivity was observed in 151/250 (60.4%) cases, being expressed in 118/212 (56%) ductal and 33/38 (87%) lobular carcinomas (a statistically significant difference, chi(2)=11.82). AR expression was frequently associated with ER (65.2%, chi(2)=14.33) and PR positivity (66.9%, chi(2)=7.36). Most AR positive cases showed a low proliferative index (63.7%) and a low or intermediate histological grade (G1-G2, 63.9%). Among the 80 selected ILCs, AR expression was observed in 64/80 (80%) cases. Our results confirm that ARs are expressed in most breast cancers. Moreover, we demonstrated that AR positivity is particularly marked in lobular neoplasms. In addition, AR positive carcinomas are frequently characterized by a low or intermediate grade, a low proliferative index and ER and/or PR co-expression.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pleomorphic lobular carcinoma of the breast: role of comprehensive molecular pathology in characterization of an entity	Immunohistochemical analysis of E-cadherin has changed the way lobular neoplasia is perceived. It has helped to classify difficult cases of carcinoma in situ with indeterminate features and led to the identification of new variants of lobular carcinoma. Pleomorphic lobular carcinoma (PLC) and pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in situ (PLCIS), recently described variants of invasive and in situ classic lobular carcinoma, are reported to be associated with more aggressive clinical behaviour. Although PLC/PLCIS show morphological features of classic lobular neoplasia and lack E-cadherin expression, it is still unclear whether these lesions evolve through the same genetic pathway as lobular carcinomas or are high-grade ductal neoplasms that have lost E-cadherin. Here we have analysed a case of extensive PLCIS and invasive PLC associated with areas of E-cadherin-negative carcinoma in situ with indeterminate features, using immunohistochemistry, chromogenic in situ hybridization, high-resolution comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) and array-based CGH. We observed that all lesions lacked E-cadherin and beta-catenin and showed gain of 1q and loss of 16q, features that are typical of lobular carcinomas but are not seen in high-grade ductal lesions. In addition, amplifications of c-myc and HER2 were detected in the pleomorphic components, which may account for the high-grade features in this case and the reported aggressive clinical behaviour of these lesions. Taken together, these data suggest that at least some PLCs may evolve from the same precursor or through the same genetic pathway as classic lobular carcinomas. Copyright (c) 2005 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Untitled		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Untitled - In reply		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for invasive lobular carcinomas of the breast: A poor pathological response but same prognosis than invasive ductal carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Paget disease (PD) of the nipple may be derived from lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS).		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Panniculitis-like invasive carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Panniculitis-like breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Female malignant breast tumors in Cambodia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Infiltrating lobular breast cancer: Histological and immunohistochemical characteristics	Lobular carcinoma ranks second among most frequent tumors of the breast. Metastases to the lymph nodes and distant organs are one of the most important prognostic factors. 60% regional lymph node metastases were morphologically diagnosed during surgical removal of the tumor. Distant metastases rate was 1% at the beginning of the treatment and reached 10% within 5-year follow-up. Cases of secondary uterus and epiploon lobular carcinoma are rare and tumor location in the breast should be proved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Rapid immunohistochemistry enhances the intraoperative diagnosis of sentinel lymph node metastases in invasive lobular breast carcinoma	BACKGROUND. The sensitivity of the intraoperative diagnosis of sentinel lymph node (SLN) micrometastases and the metastases of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is low. The goal of the current study was to assess whether the use of intraoperative, rapid immunohistochistochemistry (IHC) enhances the intraoperative detection of micrometastases and metastases of ILC.METHODS. The sensitivity of the intraoperative diagnosis of SLN metastasis was evaluated in 438 patients when using rapid IHC with a cytokeratin biomarker. The results were compared with those obtained for 557 patients without rapid IHC but with conventional staining.RESULTS. For patients with ILC, the sensitivity of the intraoperative diagnosis was 87% (45 of 52) in the IHC group and 66% (39 of 59) in the non-IHC group (P = 0.02). The sensitivity of the intraoperative diagnosis was similar for patients with other types of invasive cancer regardless of the use of rapid IHC. However, rapid IHC enhanced marginally the intraoperative diagnosis of the smallest micrometastases, isolated tumor cells (P = 0.06).CONCLUSIONS. Rapid IHC with cytokeratin labeling enhanced the intraoperative diagnosis of SLN metastases in patients with ILC. It may also improve the intraoperative diagnosis of micro metastases.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Wire-guided excision of mammographic abnormalities	Objective. A review of wire-guided excision of abnormal lesions viewed on screening mammography.Design. Retrospective review.Setting. Regional hospital, Hong Kong.Patients. Patients who underwent wire-guided excision of abnormalities visualised on screening mammography between 1999 and 2002.Intervention. Wire-guided excision.Main outcome measures. Biopsy rate and positive biopsy rate.Results. A total of 65 patients underwent wire-guided excision of an abnormal lesion previously identified by screening mammography. Twenty-one were benign, two were lobular carcinoma in situ, and 42 were malignant. Of the latter, 30 were identified as ductal carcinoma in situ, and 12 as invasive breast cancer. Thirty-eight of the 42 malignant cases required further treatment, and 24 of them underwent further operation. Radiological assessment of the 65 patients suggested that nine lesions were probably benign, 31 indeterminate, 20 suspicious, and five malignant. Malignancy was subsequently confirmed by histological examination in 6, 20, 13, and 3 cases of the respective group of radiological assessment.Conclusion. The biopsy rate was approximately 3.7 per 1000 screened women, with results benign in 1.19 per 1000. The positive biopsy rate was 64.6%, and invasion was evident in 28.6%.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histiocytoid breast carcinoma: Solid variant of invasive lobular carcinoma with decreased expression of both E-cadherin and CD44 epithelial variant	Histiocytoid breast carcinoma (HBC) is a rare type of breast carcinoma with morphologic characteristics resembling those of histiocytes. Described herein are cytological and histological findings in a case of HBC. Fine-needle aspiration cytology revealed numerous loosely cohesive tumor cells with abundant foamy to granular cytoplasm and bland-appearing nuclei. The resected tumor exhibited a solid growth pattern instead of classic invasive lobular patterns observed in most reported cases of HBC. However, distinct intracytoplasmic lumina and Pagetoid extension to ducts suggested that this tumor was a variant of invasive lobular carcinoma. To determine the cause of the loose cellular cohesiveness of this HBC, its expression of the epithelium-related cell adhesion molecules E-cadherin and CD44v8-10 (CD44 epithelial variant) was examined. Immunohistochemically, E-cadherin was not detected, similar to most lobular carcinomas. Furthermore, competitive reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses among alternatively spliced variants of CD44 revealed that the ratio of expression of CD44v8-10 to that of CD44v10 (dominant variant in leukocytes) was lower than that for the reference breast carcinoma samples. It is concluded that the present case of HBC was a solid variant of invasive lobular carcinoma exhibiting foamy to granular cytoplasmic change. Decreased expression of both E-cadherin and CD44 epithelial variant may be responsible for the loose cellular cohesiveness observed in HBC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Gadobenate dimeglumine-enhanced MR imaging breast vascular maps: Association between invasive cancer and ipsilateral increased vascularity	PURPOSE: To retrospectively compare three different doses of gadobenate dimeglumine with a standard dose of gadopentetate dimeglumine for magnetic resonance (MR) imaging evaluation of breast vessels and to evaluate the accuracy of one-sided increased vascularity seen on gadobenate dimeglumine-enhanced MR images as an indicator of ipsilateral breast cancer.MATERIALS AND METHODS: The original study had local ethics committee approval; informed consent was obtained from all enrolled patients. Ninety-five patients known to have or suspected of having breast cancer were randomly assigned to four groups to receive gadobenate dimeglumine at a dose of 0.05, 0.10, or 0.20 mmol per kilogram of body weight or gaclopentetate dimeglumine at a dose of 0.10 mmol/kg. T1-weighted gradient-echo MR images were acquired before and 2 minutes after intravenous contrast material injection. Subtracted images were used to obtain maximum intensity projections (MIPs). Two readers blinded to the type and dose of contrast agent administered scored the Mips obtained in the dose groups for vessel number, length, and conspicuity from 0, which indicated absent or low breast vascularity, to 3, which indicated high breast vascularity. The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) of one-sided increased vascularity in association with ipsilateral malignancy for 69 histopathologically confirmed lesions (reference standard) were determined after gadobenate dimeglumine-enhanced MR imaging.RESULTS: The mean MIP scores assigned to the gaclobenate climeglumine groups were significantly higher than those assigned to the gadopentetate climeglumine group (P <=.044). Histopathologic analysis revealed malignant lesions in 52 of 69 patients examined with gaclobenate dimegiumine MR imaging: invasive ductal carcinoma in 45, invasive lobular carcinoma in four, and invasive mixed ductallobular carcinoma in three patients. Seventeen patients had benign lesions. Two cases of bilateral invasive cancer with symmetric breast vascular maps were excluded. Thus, the overall sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, PPV, and NPV of one-sided increased vascularity as a finding associated with ipsilateral malignancy were 88% (44 of 50 patients), 82% (14 of 17 patients), 87% (58 of 67 patients), 94% (44 of 47 patients), and 70% (14 of 20 patients), respectively.CONCLUSION: Gaclobenate climeglumine is effective for MR imaging evaluation of breast vessels at doses as low as 0.05 mmol/kg. One-sided increased vascularity is an MR imaging finding frequently associated with ipsilateral invasive breast cancer. RSNA 2005.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Differentiation of tumours of ductal and lobular origin: II. Genomics of invasive ductal and lobular breast carcinomas	Breast cancer is considered to be a multifactorial disorder caused by both genetic and non-genetic factors. Different histological types of breast cancer differ in response to treatment and may have a divergent clinical course. Breast tissue is heterogeneous, with components of epithelial, mesenchymal, endothelial and lymphopoietic derivation. The genetic heterogenity of invasive breast cancer is reflected by the wide spectrum of histological types and differentiation grades. Nevertheless, the influences of these cell types on the tumour's total pattern of gene expression can be estimated analytically. Microarrays permit total tissue analysis and provide a stable molecular portrait of tumours. Some investigations suggest differences in the gene expression profiling for ductal and lobular carcinomas. It has been reported that inactivating mutations of the E-cadherin gene are very frequent in infiltrating lobular breast carcinomas. Other than altered expression of E-cadherin, little is known about the underlying biology that distinguishes ductal and lobular tumour subtypes. However, about 8 genes have been identified differentially which are expressed in lobular and ductal cancers: E-CD, survivin, cathepsin B, TPI1, SPRY1, SCYA14, TFAP2B, and thrombospondin 4, osteopontin, HLA-G, and CHC1. Expression profiling of breast cancers can be used diagnostically to distinguish individual histologic subclassifications and may guide the selection of target therapeutics. However, future approaches will need to include methods for high throughput clinical validation and the ability to analyze microscopic samples.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Fine needle aspiration cytology of lobular carcinoma in situ on ThinPrep (R)	Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) of the breast is a recognized marker for increased risk of invasive carcinoma and has well-established histologic criteria. However, its detection and diagnosis on FNA of breast has not been well defined. Cytology slides (all ThinPrep((R))) of 11 cases with biopsy-proven LCIS at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center were reviewed. All 11 cases showed tight and/or loosely cohesive clusters of crowded mildly enlarged nuclei and ten of 11 showed at least moderate cellularity. Single epithelial cells, small but prominent nuleoli, intracytoplasmic lumina, and two distinct epithelial-cell populations were also noted in some cases. As none of these features is specific for LCIS, it would be prudent to report such lesions as atypical so that a core biopsy or excisional biopsy will be performed before definitive treatment. The original FNA diagnosis of the 11 cases ranged from epithelial proliferation without atypia to carcinoma. Three of the 11 cases had fibroadenomas on histology with extensive involvement by LCIS. Since management for LCIS is different from that for invasive carcinoma or DCIS, it should be considered and distinguished from the latter two in cases suspicious for carcinoma on FNA. 2005 (c) 2005 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma: to grade or not to grade	Grading of invasive ductal carcinoma of no special type using the Nottingham combined histologic grading system provides independent prognostic information. The prognostic utility of grading invasive lobular carcinomas, however, has not been fully elucidated. In addition, the relationship between grade in invasive lobular carcinomas and expression of predictive biomarkers is less certain. The purpose of this study was to correlate histologic grade in invasive lobular carcinoma with known prognostic and predictive markers. All primary resections for invasive mammary carcinomas diagnosed in Mount Sinai Hospital, Toronto, between the years 1996 and 2002 were reviewed (n = 1053). Of these cases, 50 were pure invasive lobular carcinoma ( incidence 4.7%). The median age at diagnosis was 64 years. These tumors were graded using the Nottingham combined histologic grading system and analyzed for estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, HER2/neu and E-cadherin expression. Tumor grade was correlated with tumor size ( P = 0.03), and the American Joint Committee on Cancer nodal status ( P = 0.05). Assessment of the individual components of grade showed that the mitotic score was highly correlated with tumor size ( P = 0.02), lymph node positivity ( P = 0.02) and overall American Joint Committee on Cancer stage ( P = 0.01). Estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor were highly expressed irrespective of the grade of tumor. HER2/neu protein overexpression and E-cadherin protein expression was absent in all invasive lobular carcinomas studied. We conclude that pure invasive lobular carcinoma is uncommon and occurs predominantly in postmenopausal women. Increasing tumor grade is correlated with median tumor size and the American Joint Committee on Cancer nodal stage, but not correlated with the expression of estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, E-cadherin or HER2/neu protein overexpression.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Retinoic acid receptor-beta 2 promoter methylation in random periareolar fine needle aspiration	Methylation of the retinoic acid receptor-beta 2 (RAR beta 2) P2 promoter is hypothesized to be an important mechanism for loss of RAR beta 2 function during early mammary carcinogenesis. The frequency of RAR beta 2 P2 methylation was tested in (a) 16 early stage breast cancers and (b) 67 random periareolar fine needle aspiration (RPFNA) samples obtained from 38 asymptomatic women who were at increased risk for breast cancer. Risk was defined as either (a) 5-year Gail risk calculation >= 1.7%; (b) prior biopsy exhibiting atypical hyperplasia, lobular carcinoma in situ, or ductal carcinoma in situ; or (c) known BRCA1/2 mutation carrier. RAR beta 2 P2 promoter methylation was assessed at two regions, M3 (-51 to 162 bp) and M4 (104-251 bp). In early stage cancers, M4 methylation was observed in 11 of 16 (69%) cases; in RPFNA samples, methylation was present at M3 and M4 in 28 of 56 (50%) and 19 of 56 (38%) cases, respectively. RPFNAs were stratified for cytologic atypia using the Masood cytology index. The distribution of RAR beta 2 P2 promoter methylation was reported as a function of increased cytologic abnormality. Methylation at both M3 and M4 was observed in (a) 0 of 10 (0%) of RPFNAs with Masood scores of <= 10 (nonproliferative), (b) 3 of 20 (15%) with Masood scores of 11 to 12 (low-grade proliferative), (c) 3 of 10 (30%) with Masood scores of 13 (high-grade proliferative), and (d) 7 of 14 (50%) with Masood scores of 14 of 15 (atypia). Results from this study indicate that the RAR beta 2 P2 promoter is frequently methylated (69%) in primary breast cancers and shows a positive association with increasing cytologic abnormality in RPFNA.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemically detected lymph node metastases from breast carcinoma - Practical considerations about the new American Joint Committee on cancer classification	BACKGROUND. The authors applied the sixth edition of the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) classification system to their previously published group of patients with breast carcinoma who had immunohistochemically detected lymph node metastases.METHODS. The original lymph node-negative slides from 218 patients, including 129 patients with infiltrating duct carcinoma (IDC) and 89 patients with infiltrating lobular carcinoma (ILC), were reviewed and then destained to perform immunohistochemistry. Each tumor cell deposit was measured. Single tumor cells could not counted or measured (because the distance separating the most distant cells could be > 2.0 mm), but they were separated into Class 1 (sparse) and Class 2 (numerous). According to the AJCC classification, isolated tumor cells (ITCs) should be classified as pNO(i+) when they measure <= 0.2 mm and pN1mi when they measure <= 2.0 mm but > 0.2 mm.RESULTS. ITCs were found in 13 IDCs (10%) and in 37 ILCs (41%) and corresponded in IDCs to a single deposit of a few tumor cells that measured <= 0.2 mm (associated with a single tumor cell in 3 tumors) and were classified as pN0(i+). In ILCs, ITCs corresponded to single tumor cells with an irregular distribution throughout the entire lymph node section (24 ITCs and 13 ITCs in Class 1 and Class 2, respectively) and were difficult to classify.CONCLUSIONS. The results suggest that there are 2 categories of pN0(i+): measurable tumor cell deposits <= 0.2 mm, which were found exclusively in IDCs; and nonmeasurable ITCs, which were found in ILCs and rarely in IDCs. The new classification is difficult to apply to ITCs that are detected by immunohistochemistry in ILCs. (c) 2005 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Significant expression of IGFBP2 in breast cancer compared with benign lesions	Background/Aim: Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) and IGF binding proteins (IGFBPs) play a role in the normal development of breast tissue, and possibly in breast cancer aetiology. IGFBP2, one of six members of the IGFBP superfamily, acts as regulator of the IGFs and has pleiotropic effects in normal and neoplastic tissues. Because IGFs have mitogenic effects on mammary epithelia, this study investigated IGFBP2 expression in mammary tissues of different benign and malignant entities. Methods: Immunohistochemistry was used to study correlations between the presence and intensity of IGFBP2 staining and tumour type and grade, in addition to steroid hormone receptor status, in 120 breast specimens. Expression was measured by quantitative colour video image analysis and semiquantitative evaluation, and the measurements correlated well (r = 0.92; p 0.05). Results: Both methods found no significant expression of IGFBP2 in normal glandular cells and hyperplasia (group I). Atypical hyperplasia showed a slightly increased cytoplasmic expression of IGFBP2, and carcinoma in situ showed a distinctive, membrane associated and cytoplasmic expression (group II). Infiltrating carcinomas strongly expressed cytoplasmic IGFBP2 (group III). There were significant differences between group I and II, and between group II and III. There were no significant differences between invasive lobular and invasive ductal carcinoma, or between grades I, II, and III within these entities. There was no significant correlation between IGFBP2 immunostaining and oestrogen or progesterone receptor positivity within the malignant group. Conclusions: IGFBP2 mitogenic signals of autocrine/paracrine regulatory mechanisms may be responsible for the growth of breast carcinomas and IGFBP2 may be an independent indicator of malignancy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pleomorphic variant of invasive lobular carcinoma of the male breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Sentinel lymph nodes and breast carcinoma: analysis of 70 cases by frozen section	BACKGROUND: The sentinal node biopsy (SNB) is a reliable method for determining the status of the regional lymph nodes in patients with breast cancer. SNB technology is evolving rapidly, but no standardization has yet been accomplished. The aim of this study is to discuss the accuracy of this procedure and the optimal method for identifying micrometastases.METHODS: We collected data from 70 women with primary invasive breast carcinoma who underwent SNB for breast cancer. We examined two frozen sections levels from each half of each lymph node, as well as a cytology imprint before arriving at the frozen section diagnosis. Immunohistochemistry with pancytokeratin (AE1/AE3) was done on the paraffin sections. For the association between the lymph node size and the possibility of metastases, Student's t test was used and a P value of less than 0.05 was regarded as significant.RESULTS: The number of patients with metastases in SNB was 19, from which 15 cases were correctly diagnosed in frozen sections/imprints and four cases were false negative. The axillary toilet from all cases with SNB metastases smaller than 2 mm showed no additional positive nodes. Lymph node diameter showed a significant association with sentinel node status (P < 0.0001).CONCLUSION: Frozen section examination of SNB from patients with breast carcinoma is both specific (100%) and sensitive (79%). Diagnosis of lobular carcinoma can be difficult, and may require immunohistochemistry with cytokeratin for diagnosis. Small metastases in a non-optimal frozen section may be difficult to discern. Cytology imprints add nothing to the diagnosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HER-2/neu and p53 overexpression as biomarkers of breast carcinoma in women age 30 years and younger	BACKGROUND. Although p53 and HER-2/neu overexpression are found in 30% of breast carcinomas in women of all ages and are associated with high rates of lymph node metastases, their role in women age < 30 years has not been studied 2. extensively. METHODS. The institutional breast cancer data base was searched to identify young women (23-30 years) with breast carcinoma. An immunohistochemical analysis was performed to determine estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor expression and p53 and HER-2/neu overexpression. Positive staining for p53 was defined as nuclear staining in > 10% of tumor cells. HER-2/neu membranous staining was graded as 0, 1 (incomplete, faint staining in > 10% of cells), 2 (weak-to-moderate, complete staining in > 10% of cells), or 3 (complete, strong staining in > 10% of cells). Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was performed oil all samples with gtoreq and gtoreq results, and only FISH-positive samples were classified as positive. The overexpression was correlated with clinicopathologic features. RESULTS. Among 44 patients, I patient bad medullary carcinoma, and I had mixed ductal/lobular carcinoma. All remaining patients were diagnosed with invasive ductal carcinoma. The clinical stage was T1 in 5 patients, T2 in 24 patients, T3 in 10 patients, T4 in 4 patients, and unavailable in I patient. Positive p53 status was determined in 22 of 44 patients (50%), and positive HER-2/neu status was determined in 18 of 41 patients (44%). Tumors with lymph node metastasis had a significantly greater incidence of HER-2/neu overexpression (P = 0.04). CONCLUSIONS. Frequent overexpression of HER-2/neu and p53 was found in the patient population. HER-2/neu overexpression was associated significantly with lymph node involvement and, thus, may be a market for aggressive clinical behavior in patients with breast carcinoma age ltoreq 30 years. Cancer 2005;103:900-5. Copyright 2005 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of P-cadherin, but not E-cadherin or N-cadherin, relates to pathological and functional differentiation of breast carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Treatment of male breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Metastases of breast carcinoma to the uterus. Report of two cases, one harboring a primary endometrioid carcinoma, with review of the literature	Background. Metastases to the uterus are rare. accounting for less than 10% of all cases of metastases; to the female genital tract from extragenital cancers. The endometrium is even less frequently affected by metastases, Lobular carcinoma is the most common type of breast cancer that metastasizes to the uterus. Cases. Two cases of infiltrating lobular carcinoma of the breast metastatic to endometrium and myometrium. one of them harboring an endometrioid adenocarcinoma, are reported. Both patients were on tamoxifen therapy and presented with uterine bleeding. Conclusion. To the best of our knowledge, uterine carcinoma serving as recipient of metastatic carcinoma front the breast has not been previously documented. This possibility Should be considered when an unusual bimorphic pattern appears in a tumor until proven otherwise. Copyright 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Ultrasound-guided large-core needle biopsies of breast lesions: analysis of 962 cases to determine the number of samples for reliable tumour classification	The objective of this one- institutional study was to determine the number of large- core needle biopsies ( LCNB), under three-dimensional ultrasound ( 3D- US) validation, that are sufficient to obtain a reliable histological diagnosis of a sonographically detectable breast lesion. Over an 28- month period, 962 sonographically guided LCNB were performed under 3D- US validation to assess 962 breast lesions. All biopsies were carried out with an automated core biopsy device fitted with 14- gauge ( 22mm excursion) needles. Data of 962 biopsied breast lesions were gathered. Surgical follow- up was available for 659 lesions. Breast malignancies were diagnosed by ultrasound- guided LCNB with a sensitivity of 98.2% by performing three cores per lesion. In few cases, the open surgical specimen revealed the presence of invasive carcinomas in contrast to initial LNCB- based classification as ductal carcinomas in situ ( DCIS, 11 lesions), lobular carcinoma in situ ( one lesion), and atypical ductal hyperpasia ( one lesion). Owing to disagreement between classification based on breast- imaging and histological findings, eight of these tumours were subsequently excised. Of the lesions that were removed at the patients' requests despite benign LCNB diagnosis, two were infiltrating carcinoma and one a DCIS. We demonstrate that three 3D- US- guided percutaneous core specimens are sufficient to achieve tissue for a reliable histological assessment of sonographically detectable breast lesions and allow the detection of malignancies with high sensitivity and low rate of false- negative diagnoses.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Characterization of gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor-associated protein, a novel tumor suppressor, showing reduced expression in breast cancer	Frequent allelic loss of the chromosomal region 17p13 in breast cancer has suggested that more tumor suppressor genes, besides p53, are located in this region. By doing suppression subtractive hybridization to detect differentially expressed genes between the breast cancer cell line CAL51 and a nontumorigenic microcell hybrid CAL/17-1, we identified the gene for the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor associated protein (GABARAP), located on 17p13.1. GABARAP displayed high expression levels in the microcell hybrid CAL/17-1 but only weak expression in CAL51 and other breast cancer cell lines tested. Furthermore, we observed large vesicles in CAL/17-1 by immunofluorescence staining, whereas no signal could be detected in the tumor cell line. GABARAP mRNA expression and protein expression were significantly down-regulated in invasive ductal and invasive lobular carcinomas compared with normal breast tissue measured by semiquantitative reverse transcription-PCR and immunohistochemistry, respectively. We assessed that neither mutations in the coding region of the gene nor hypermethylation of CpG islands in the promoter region are responsible for loss of gene expression in CAL51; however, 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine treatment was effective in gene up-regulation, suggesting a methylation-dependent upstream effect. Stable transfection of GABARAP into CAL51 resulted in an increase of gene expression and remarkably influenced the ability of colony formation in soft agar and the growth rate in vitro and, moreover, suppressed the tumorigenicity of the cells in nude mice. In summary, our data suggest that GABARAP acts via a vesicle transport mechanism as a tumor suppressor in breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Distinct breast cancer incidence and survival patterns according to histopathology: analysis of the NCI's SEER database.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS). Discovery modalities, treatments and long term outcome. Analysis of 183 cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma and the high grade variant pleomorphic lobular carcinoma: molecular characterization		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Intra-operative touch preparation cytology; does it have a role in re-excision lumpectomy?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Neoadjuvant chemotherapy for invasive lobular carcinomas of the breast: a poorer response rate but not a worse prognosis than invasive ductal carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular profiling of human breast cancer with serum mass spectrum data.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CpG island hypermethylation in breast cancer progression and metastasis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder mimicking lobular carcinoma of the breast: a discohesive variant of urothelial carcinoma	Aims: To describe a series of 10 cases of transitional cell carcinoma which show morphological features which mimic lobular carcinoma of the breast and diffuse carcinoma of the stomach. Methods and results: Ten cases were identified from the files at Southampton University Hospitals NHS Trust and from the authors' consultation files. Immunostains were performed and clinical information was obtained. Eight of the patients were male and two female. Ages ranged from 52 to 77 years at presentation. All of the tumours showed areas where the tumour was composed of uniform cells with a discohesive single-cell, diffusely invasive growth pattern. In areas the tumour cells were arranged in linear single-cell files and in separate areas solid sheets of discohesive cells. In all of the cases some tumour cells showed prominent intracytoplasmic vacuoles. In addition to this pattern, four cases showed typical transitional cell carcinoma or carcinoma in situ. The majority of the tumours expressed cytokeratin 20 but not oestrogen receptors. Conclusion: This study highlights a pattern of diffusely invasive transitional cell carcinoma not previously described and one which is important to recognize in order to avoid misdiagnosis of metastatic lobular carcinoma of the breast, especially in small biopsies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Retrospective study evaluating the accuracy of CAD in marking invasive lobular carcinoma	Infiltrating lobular carcinoma (ILC) is a diagnostic dilemma even for the most experienced radiologist. ILC is difficult to diagnose mammographically as tumors can be present as architectural distortion, asymmetries, or low-density masses. The purpose of our study was to evaluate the detection of ILC using a computer-aided detection system (CAD). We reviewed 81 consecutive cases of ILC diagnosed by our clinic in a 2(1/2) year period. We collected the following: visibility of cancer on current or prior mammograms, whether CAD marked the cancer on one or both mammographic views (craniocaudal, CC and mediolateral oblique, MLO) in current and prior studies, tumor size, nuclear grade, and lymph node involvement. Results reveal that 65% of the cancers was marked by CAD the year of diagnosis and 26% of cancers were marked by CAD the prior year. Mean mammographic size in the current year was 1.7 cm and 1.0 cm in the prior year. At surgery, the mean tumor size was 2.1 cm and nuclear grade was reported as 43% Grade I, 53% Grade II, and 4% Grade III. Positive lymph node involvement was reported in 33%. Overall, CAD may be helpful as an adjunct to mammography for ILC diagnosis. (c) 2005 CARS & Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Molecular evolution of breast cancer	Molecular analysis of invasive breast cancer and its precursors has furthered our understanding of breast cancer progression. In the past few years, new multi-step pathways of breast cancer progression have been delineated through genotypic-phenotypic correlations. Nuclear grade, more than any other pathological feature, is strongly associated with the number and pattern of molecular genetic abnormalities in breast cancer cells. Thus, there are two distinct major pathways to the evolution of low- and high-grade invasive carcinomas: whilst the former consistently show oestrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PgR) positivity and 16q loss, the latter are usually ER/PgR-negative and show Her-2 over-expression/amplification and complex karyotypes. The boundaries between the evolutionary pathways of well-differentiated/low-grade ductal and lobular carcinomas have been blurred, with changes in E-cadherin expression being one of the few distinguishing features between the two. In addition, lesions long thought to be precursors of breast carcinomas, such as hyperplasia of usual type, are currently considered mere risk indicators, whilst columnar cell lesions are now implicated as non-obligate precursors of atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH) and well-differentiated ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). However, only through the combination of comprehensive morphological analysis and cutting-edge molecular tools can this knowledge be translated into clinical practice and patient management. Copyright Copyright 2005 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ZO-1 and occludin - novel markers of lobular carcinoma of breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Locally advanced breast cancer. A study of predictive factors of pathological response to treatment with primary chemotherapy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Morphologic features of ipsilateral recurrent breast cancers in patients treated with breast conserving therapy (BCT)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparative analysis of Her2/neu status with histopathologic parameters and hormone receptor (HR) status in breast carcinomas (Ca)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Microsomal prostaglandin E-2 synthase-1 in breast cancer progression		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of p27 in primary versus metastatic breast carcinomas: Its prognostic significance and relation to other prognostic markers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic and biomarker assessment of residual breast carcinoma in surgical specimens after neoadjuvant chemotherapy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Frequency of indeterminate HER-2/neu staining and gene amplification in ductal and lobular carcinoma: A comparative study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Slide based, whole cell Her2neu FISH amplification: Mechanisms of expression and correlation with immunohistochemistry		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Does smear technique affect the accuracy of intraoperative sentinel lymph node cytology in breast cancer?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Classification and grading of invasive breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of MUC1 and MUC2 in mammary carcinomas: Prognostic significance of a sialylated MUC1 epitope		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Magnetic resonance imaging of the breast prior to biopsy	Context Breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has been shown to have high sensitivity for cancer detection and is increasingly used following mammography to evaluate suspicious breast lesions. Objective To determine the accuracy of breast MRI in conjunction with mammography for the detection of breast cancer in patients with suspicious mammographic or clinical findings. Design, Setting, and Patients Prospective multicenter investigation of the International Breast MR Consortium conducted at 14 university hospitals in North America and Europe from June 2, 1998, through October 31, 2001, of 821 patients referred for breast biopsy for American College of Radiology category 4 or 5 mammographic assessment or suspicious clinical or ultrasound finding. Interventions MRI examinations performed prior to breast biopsy; MRI results were interpreted at each site, which were blinded to pathological results. Main Outcome Measures Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), sensitivity, and specificity of breast MRI. Results Among the 821 patients, there were 404 malignant index lesions, of which 63 were ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and 341 were invasive carcinoma. Of the 417 nonmalignant index lesions, 366 were benign, 47 showed atypical histology, and 4 were lobular carcinoma in situ. The AUC pooled over all institutions was 0.88 (95% confidence interval (CI), 0.86-0.91). MRI correctly detected cancer in 356 of 404 cancer cases (DCIS or invasive cancer), resulting in a sensitivity of 88.1% (95% CI, 84.6%-91.1%), and correctly identified as negative for cancer 281 of 417 cases without cancer, resulting in a specificity of 67.7% (95% CI, 62.7%-71.9%). MRI performance was not significantly affected by mammographic breast density, tumor histology, or menopausal status. The positive predictive values for 356 of 492 patients was 72.4% (95% CI, 68.2%-76.3%) and of mammography for 367 of 695 patients was 52.8% (95% CI, 49.0%-56.6%) (P.005). Dynamic MRI did not improve the AUC compared with 3-dimensional MRI alone, but the specificity of a washout pattern for 123 of 136 patients without cancer was 90.4% (95% CI, 84%-95%). Conclusions Breast MRI has high sensitivity but only moderate specificity independent of breast density, tumor type, and menopausal status. Although the positive predictive value of MRI is greater than mammography, MRI does not obviate the need for subsequent tissue sampling in this setting.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Array comparative genomic hybridization analysis of genomic alterations in breast cancer subtypes	In this study, we performed high-resolution array comparative genomic hybridization with an array of 4153 bacterial artificial chromosome clones to assess copy number changes in 44 archival breast cancers. The tumors were flow sorted to exclude non-tumor DNA and increase our ability to detect gene copy number changes. In these tumors, losses were more frequent than gains, and gains in 1q and loss in 16q were the most frequent alterations. We compared gene copy number changes in the tumors based on histologic subtype and estrogen receptor (ER) status, i.e., ER-negative infiltrating ductal carcinoma, ER-positive infiltrating ductal carcinoma, and ER-positive infiltrating lobular carcinoma. We observed a consistent association between loss in regions of 5q and ER-negative infiltrating ductal carcinoma, as well as more frequent loss in 4p16, 8p23, 8p21, 10q25, and 17p11.2 in ER-negative infiltrating ductal carcinoma compared with ER-positive infiltrating ductal carcinoma (adjusted P values ltoreq 0.05). We also observed high-level amplifications in ER-negative infiltrating ductal carcinoma in regions of 8q24 and 17q12 encompassing the c-myc and c-erbB-2 genes and apparent homozygous deletions in 3p21, 5q33, 8p23, 8p21, 9q34, 16q24, and 19q13. ER-positive infiltrating ductal carcinoma showed a higher frequency of gain in 16p13 and loss in l6q21 than ER-negative infiltrating ductal carcinoma. Correlation analysis highlighted regions of change commonly seen together in ER-negative infiltrating ductal carcinoma. ER-positive infiltrating lobular carcinoma differed from ER-positive infiltrating ductal carcinoma in the frequency of gain in 1q and loss in 11q and showed high-level amplifications in 1q32, 8p23, 11q13, and 11q14. These results indicate that array comparative genomic hybridization can identify significant differences in the genomic alterations between subtypes of breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Interactive detection and visualization of breast lesions from dynamic contrast enhanced MRI volumes	Mammography is currently regarded as the most effective and widely used method for early detection of breast cancer, but recently its sensitivity in certain high risk cases has been less than desired. The use of Dynamic Contrast Enhanced Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DCE-MRI) has gained considerable attention in the past 10 years, especially for high risk cases, for smaller multi-focal lesions, or very sparsely distributed lesions. In this work, we present an interactive visualization system to identify, process, visualize and quantify lesions from DCE-MRI volumes. Our approach has the following key features: (1) we determine a confidence measure for each voxel, representing the probability that the voxel is part of the tumor, using a rough goodness-of-fit for the shape of the intensity-time curves, (2) our system takes advantage of low-cost, readily available 3D texture mapping hardware to produce both 2D and 3D visualizations of the segmented MRI volume in near real-time, enabling improved spatial perception of the tumor location, shape, size, distribution, and other characteristics useful in staging and treatment courses, and (3) our system permits interactive manipulation of the signal-time curves, adapts to different tumor types and morphology, thus making it a powerful tool for radiologists/physicians to rapidly assess probable malignant volumes. We illustrate the application of our system with four case studies: invasive ductal cancer, benign fibroadenoma, ductal carcinoma in situ and lobular carcinoma. Copyright 2004 Published by Elsevier Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Both mode of detection and hormone replacement therapy affect breast cancer characteristics in postmenopausal women		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic accuracy of mammography, clinical examination, US, and MR imaging in preoperative assessment of breast cancer	Purpose: To prospectively assess accuracy of mammography, clinical examination, ultrasonography (US), and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging in preoperative assessment of local extent of breast cancer. Materials and Methods: Institutional review board approval and informed patient consent were obtained. Results of bilateral mammography, US, and contrast-enhanced MR imaging were analyzed from 111 consecutive women with known or suspected invasive breast cancer. Results were correlated with histopathologic findings. Results: Analysis included 177 malignant foci in 121 cancerous breasts, of which 89 (50%) foci were palpable. Median size of 139 invasive foci was 18 mm (range, 2-107 mm). Mammographic sensitivity decreased from 100% in fatty breasts to 45% in extremely dense breasts. Mammographic sensitivity was highest for invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) in 89 of 110 (81%) cases versus 10 of 29 (34%) cases of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) (P.001) and 21 of 38 (55%) cases of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) (P.01). US showed higher sensitivity than did mammography for IDC, depicting 104 of 110 (94%) cases, and for ILC, depicting 25 of 29 (86%) cases (P.01 for each). US showed higher sensitivity for invasive cancer than DCIS (18 of 38 (47%),P.001). MR showed higher sensitivity than did mammography for all tumor types (P.01) and higher sensitivity than did US for DCIS (P.001), depicting 105 of 110 (95%) cases of IDC, 28 of 29 (96%) cases of ILC, and 34 of 38 (89%) cases of DCIS. In anticipation of conservation or no surgery after mammography and clinical examination in 96 breasts, additional tumor ( which altered surgical approach) was present in 30. Additional tumor was depicted in 17 of 96 (18%) breasts at US and in 29 of 96 (30%) at MR, though extent was now overestimated in 12 of 96 (12%) at US and 20 of 96 (21%) at MR imaging. After combined mammography, clinical examination, and US, MR depicted additional tumor in another 12 of 96 (12%) breasts and led to overestimation of extent in another six (6%); US showed no detection benefit after MR imaging. Bilateral cancer was present in 10 of 111 (9%) patients; contralateral tumor was depicted mammographically in six and with both US and MR in an additional three. One contralateral cancer was demonstrated only clinically. Conclusion: In nonfatty breasts, US and MR imaging were more sensitive than mammography for invasive cancer, but both MR imaging and US involved risk of overestimation of tumor extent. Combined mammography, clinical examination, and MR imaging were more sensitive than any other individual test or combination of tests. (C) RSNA, 2004.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Morphology analysis and discussion of invasive lobular carcinoma in fine needle aspirates of the breast and research for its significance	Objective: To approach whether cytology may accurately subclassify Invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast in order to make cytological diagnosis significant. Methods: Nine hundred and twenty-six cases of fine needle aspirates cytological specimens of the breast were studied, 289 of which were breast cancer, including susceptible cases; among the 289 cases, 8 were diagnosed as invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) by HE histological sections. Imaging analysis system was used to evaluate the cell morphology. Moreover, some aspects of ILC were compared with other types of breast cancer. Results: The incidence of ILC in breast cancer amounts to 2.8% (8/289). The cell morphology is anatomically and cytologically special for diagnosis. Compared to other types of breast cancer in the smear samples, there is no statistically significant difference (P>0.05). Conclusion: The subclassification of ILC can be made by fine needle aspiration in most of the cases. ILC may coexist with the invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC), so it must he prudential to subclassify further for the routine pathological diagnosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Surivivin expression in breast carcinoma: Correlation with apoptotic markers and prognosis	Purpose To assess the expression of survivin, p53 and PCNA in breast carcinoma and to discuss the mechanism of apoptotic path-way. Methods 55 cases of formalin-fixed paraffin-embeded malignant and benign breast cancinoma were detected using immunohistochemical method with the monoclonal antibody against survivin, p53 and PCNA. Results Expression of survivin, p53 and PCNA was 90%, 37. 5% and 100%, respectively. The difference between malignant and benign breast carcinoma was significant (P = 0.001). There was no significant correlation between survivin expression and age and p53 (P > 0.05). There was significant correlation between survivin expression and histologic type. The difference between mucinous, medullary carcinoma and invasive ductal, lobular carcinoma was significant (P 0.05). Survivin expression was strongly associated with PCNA. It suggested that in breast cancinoma, tumor cells were inclined to jproliferation and not apoptosis. Conclusions Over-expression of survivin, PCNA and frequent mutation of p53 may inhibit apoptotic pathway. They may be involved in the development and poor progress of breast carcinoma. The results suggest that apoptosis inhibition by survivin, alone or in cooperation with mutant p53 and PCNA may induce poor outcome in breast carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Unexpected metastatic lobular carcinoma of the breast with intraabdominal spread and subsequent port-site metastasis after diagnostic laparoscopy for exclusion of ovarian cancer	Introduction. Although lobular carcinomas metastasize primarily to lymph nodes, bone, lung, and liver, they can also spread to the gastrointestinal tract, peritoneum, and gynecologic organs. Case report. We report a case of intraperitoneal carcinomatosis of a lobular breast carcinoma that metastasized primarily to the peritoneum, with a subsequent abdominal wall invasion at the trocar site following laparoscopic surgery for the exclusion of an ovarian carcinoma. Discussion. Port-site metastases (PSM) have occurred after laparoscopic surgery for endometrial, fallopian tube, ovarian, and cervical cancers. This is the first report of PSM of a lobular breast carcinoma primarily metastasized to the abdominal cavity. Every surgeon should be aware of the metastatic pattern of breast cancer, especially in relation to its histological subtypes. This case report emphasizes that PSM can occur in various kinds of gynecologic tumors, including breast cancer. Copyright 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of the transcription factor CTCF in invasive breast cancer: a candidate gene located at 16q22.1	CTCF is a ubiquitous 11-zinc-finger protein that plays a role in gene silencing or activation, chromatin insulation and genomic imprinting. The CTCF gene has been mapped to the chromosome band 16q22.1 that shows frequent loss of heterozygosity in breast cancer. The E-cadherin gene is the known tumour suppressor gene (TSG) at this region in lobular carcinomas; however, the target gene in the more frequent ductal tumours is still unknown. Since CTCF targets include TSGs and oncogenes and it has the ability to inhibit cell growth and proliferation, it has been suggested that it may be the target gene at the 16q22.1 in ductal carcinomas. In the present study, tissue microarray technology was used to study the expression pattern of CTCF immunohistochemically in 344 cases of invasive breast carcinoma and its expression was correlated with clinicopathological variables and patient outcome. Results showed that breast tissues express CTCF in the parenchymal cells of the normal ducts and lobules but with a variable percentage of positive cells. Staining of CTCF was detected in the nuclei and cytoplasm of the malignant cells, but no significant loss or decrease of expression was noticed in association with any specific tumour type. There was a significant correlation between expression of CTCF and histological grades; lower expression was associated with grade 3 tumours. Cytoplasmic expression was associated with increased tumour size and with the presence of vascular invasion. However, no association was found between CTCF expression and tumour type, lymph node stage, oestrogen receptor expression or patient outcome. In conclusion, the current results show that CTCF, although it may play a role in breast carcinogenesis, is unlikely to be the TSG targeted by the 16q22.1 loss in breast cancer and thus another gene or genes at this region remain to be identified.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Prognostic value of morphology and hormone receptor status in breast cancer - a population-based study	We analysed the 5-year relative survival among 4473 breast cancer cases diagnosed in 1990-1992 from cancer registries in Estonia, France, Italy, Spain, the Netherlands and the UK. Among eight categories based on ICD-O codes (infiltrating ductal carcinoma, lobular plus mixed carcinoma, comedocarcinoma, 'special types', medullary carcinoma, not otherwise specified (NOS) carcinoma, other carcinoma and cancer without microscopic confirmation), the 5-year relative survival ranged from 66% (95% CI 61-71) for NOS carcinoma to 95% (95% CI 90-100) for special types (tubular, apocrine, cribriform, papillary, mucinous and signet ring cell); 27% (95% CI 18-36) for cases without microscopic confirmation. Differences in 5-year relative survival by tumor morphology and hormone receptor status were modelled using a multiple regression approach based on generalised linear models. Morphology and hormone receptor status were confirmed as significant survival predictors in this population-based study, even after adjusting for age and stage at diagnosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Infiltrating lobular carcinoma - a comparison of diagnosis, management and outcome with infiltrating duct carcinoma	The treatment and outcomes for 182 patients with lobular carcinoma were compared with 1612 patients with infiltrating ductal carcinoma managed concurrently at The Strathfield Breast Centre. The lobular carcinomas were larger (P<0.0001) but of lower grade (P<0.0001). Diagnosis with mammography and FNA was less sensitive in ILC (mammography P = 0.0002, FNA P<0.0001). Although similar numbers of patients underwent initial attempted conservation, patients with ILC were more likely to have positive margins at attempted breast conservation surgery and the final mastectomy rate was higher (58.2% ILC versus 47% IDC, P = 0.0041). Of the patients who had successful conservation, the local recurrence rates for ILC (3.9%) were equivalent to the patients with IDC (5.3%). There was no significant difference in overall survival (90% ILC, 87% IDC, median follow-up 3.6 years ILC, 4.3 years IDC) or disease free survival (87.9% ILC, 81.6% IDC). Although mastectomy is more likely to be necessary to obtain clear margins, breast conservation therapy is reasonable in patients with infiltrating lobular carcinoma where clear margins can be obtained. Copyright 2004 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Angiogenesis and VEGF expression in pre-invasive lesions of the human breast	Angiogenesis (as microvascular density - MVD) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression were evaluated by immunohistochemistry in all types of human preinvasive breast lesion, un-associated with invasive carcinoma, including florid ductal hyperplasia of usual type (FDHUT, 40 cases), atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH, 10), well-differentiated intraductal carcinoma (WDIC, 16), intermediately differentiated intraductal carcinoma (IDIC, 25), poorly differentiated intraductal carcinoma (PDIC, 20), atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH, 13), and lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS, 12). Both parameters were also studied in normal glandular structures obtained from normal breasts or from breasts containing pre-invasive lesions. Increased vascularization was present in all lesion types (MVD mean values (expressed as vessel number/mm2): 115 +/- 8 in normal lobules, 146 +/- 26 in lesions; p 0.05) and increased with lesion severity. In ductal lesions, MVDs were significantly higher in PDIC (190 +/- 65) and IDIC (167 +/- 61) than in FDHUT (123 +/- 40) and ADH (122 +/- 47); MVD was much higher in PDIC than in WDIC (p 0.001). WDIC showed peculiar features, with a degree of vascularization closer to hyperplasia than to the other histological types of in situ ductal cancer; this observation is in line with the hypothesis that IDIC and PDIC may originate 'de novo', without a mandatory transition through WDIC. LCIS was more vascularized than ALH (168 +/- 50 and 125 +/- 40, respectively; p 0.05), showing MVD values similar to those of PDIC and IDIC. The vascularization of normal lobules was constant, regardless of their association with lesions. VEGF expression in normal glandular structures was lower than in lesions, with the highest levels found in ductal lesions when compared with lobular lesions. No correlation was found between VEGF expression and the degree and/or type of vascularization. Copyright (C) 2004 Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland. Published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oncogenic pathways in hereditary and sporadic breast cancer	Cancer is a genetic disease. Breast cancer tumorigenesis can be described as a multi-step process in which each step is thought to correlate with one or more distinct mutations in major regulatory genes. The question addressed is how far a multi-step progression model for sporadic breast cancer would differ from that for hereditary breast cancer. Hereditary breast cancer is characterized by an inherited susceptibility to breast cancer on basis of an identified germline mutation in one allele of a high penetrance susceptibility gene (such as BRCA1, BRCA2, CHEK 2, TP53 or PTEN). Inactivation of the second allele of these tumour suppressor genes would be an early event in this oncogenic pathway (Knudson's "two-hit" model). Sporadic breast cancers result from a serial stepwise accumulation of acquired and uncorrected mutations in somatic genes, without any germline mutation playing a role. Mutational activation of oncogenes, often coupled with non-mutational inactivation of tumour suppressor genes, is probably an early event in sporadic tumours, followed by more, independent mutations in at least four or five other genes, the chronological order of which is likely less important. Oncogenes that have been reported to play an early role in sporadic breast cancer are MYC, CCND1 (Cyclin D1) and ERBB2 (HER2/neu). In sporadic breast cancer, mutational inactivation of BRCA1/2 is rare, as inactivation requires both gene copies to be mutated or totally deleted. However, non-mutational functional suppression could result from various mechanisms, such as hypermethylation of the BRCA1 promoter or binding of BRCA2 by EMSY. In sporadic breast tumorigenesis, at least three different pathway-specific mechanisms of turnout progression are recognizable, with breast carcinogenesis being different in ductal versus lobular carcinoma, and in well differentiated versus poorly differentiated ductal cancers. Thus, different breast cancer pathways emerge early in the process of carcinogenesis, ultimately leading to clinically different tumour types. As mutations acquired early during tumorigenesis will be present in all later stages, large-scale gene expression profiling using DNA microarray analysis techniques can help to classify breast cancers into clinically relevant subtypes. Copyright 2004 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Plasma prolactin concentrations and risk of postmenopausal breast cancer	Prolactin is important in human breast development, and substantial laboratory and in vitro data suggest a role in mammary carcinogenesis. Therefore, we conducted a prospective case-control study nested within the Nurses' Health Study cohort to examine, in detail, the association between plasma prolactin concentrations and postmenopausal breast cancer by cancer invasiveness, estrogen receptor/progesterone receptor status, and other subject characteristics, including postmenopausal hormone use. Blood samples were collected from 1989 to 1990 and prolactin was measured by microparticle enzyme immunoassay. The analysis included 851 cases of postmenopausal breast cancer diagnosed after blood collection and before June 2000, in which there were one or two controls (n = 1,275) matched on age, postmenopausal hormone use, fasting status, and time of day and month of blood collection. Prolactin was associated with a modestly increased risk of postmenopausal breast cancer (relative risk, top versus bottom quartile, 1.34; 95% confidence interval (0), 1.02-1.76; P-trend = 0.011. The association differed by estrogen receptor/ progesterone receptor status (P-heterogeneity = 0.03). The relative risk was 1.78 (95% CI, 1.28, 2.50; P-trend < 0.001) for estrogen receptor+/ progesterone receptor+, 0.76 (95% CI, 0.43, 1.32; P-trend = 0.28) for estrogen receptor -/progesterone receptor-, and 1.94 (95% CI, 0.99,3.78; P-trend = 0.12) for estrogen receptor+ /progesterone receptor- breast cancers. Associations generally were similar for ductal and lobular carcinomas (P-heterogeneity = 0.43) and by tumor size (P-heterogeneity = 0.24). Among estrogen receptor +/progesterone receptor+ cancers, the association did not significantly differ by postmenopausal hormone use, years between blood draw and diagnosis, or after adjustment for estradiol (relative risk, 1.93; 95% CI, 1.16, 3.22; P-trend = 0.01). Our prospective data suggest that plasma prolactin concentrations are associated with an increased risk of postmenopausal breast cancer, particularly for estrogen receptor+ /progesterone receptor+ cancers, and independently of estradiol.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	EXPRESSION OF THE PUTATIVE ONCOGENE THIOREDOXIN IN MALIGNANT CELLS IS ASSOCIATED WITH THIOREDOXIN REDUCTASE AND PROLIFERATION		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	EXPRESSION OF THE NEW ANTIMETASTATIC GENE BRMS1 IN BREAST CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MRI evaluation of primary chemotherapy response in breast cancer	The aim of this work was to evaluate the value of contrast enhanced MRI for determination of response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy (type FEC) in breast cancer according to two parameters: size of the enhancing tumor and the maximum relative enhancement curve (MRC) in the same tumor area. Twenty womens with breast cancer (15 invasive ductal carcinomas and 5 invasive lobular carcinomas) T2 (n = 8) or T3 (n = 12) were evaluated by physical examination and MRI after a minimal of three courses of FEC and prior to surgery. Data from physical examination and imaging studies were compared to histopathological findings. Physical examination estimated correctly the residual tumor size in 45% of cases and MRI in 60% with 3 false negative cases. Among evaluated patients with MRI mesurable residual tumor, tumor size was underestimated in 69% of the cases and overestimated in 31% of the cases. A MRC flattening was observed in 5 cases among the patients with a partial response or clinical stable disease correlated with a poor cellular density in the microscopic findings. MRI monitoring of chemotherapy response can be useful for guiding surgery. Therefore, underestimation of the residual tumor size and false negative rate are remaining problems.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Normal breast lobular architecture in breast biopsy samples from breast cancer cases and benign disease controls	Rodent studies suggest a relationship between lobular maturation and breast cancer risk. Human data are sparse, and were developed using whole mounts of mastectomy or mammoplasty samples, without consideration of menstrual phase in premenopausal women. We studied normal breast lobules in relation to cancer risk in 284 women, using surgical biopsy material (mean two sections and 43.2 lobular structures per subject): 167 were premenopausal; 89 with breast cancer (cases) and 78 undergoing benign breast biopsy (controls). Of 117 postmenopausal women, 67 were cases and 50 were controls. Normal lobular type was classified based on size, and was designated predominant if it constituted 60% or more of the total lobules classified. The control group showed 66% type I, 34% type II and 1% type III lobules while cases showed 69% type I, 31% type II and 7% type III structures. Predominant lobule type showed no association with cancer (p = 0.9). Postmenopausal women had a substantially higher proportion of type I lobules compared to premenopausal women, irrespective of the parity or cancer status (p 0.001). Lobule type was not associated with menstrual phase classified by dates; however, when menstrual phase was classified using breast morphological characteristics, type I lobules were more abundant in follicular phase and type II in the luteal phase (p 0.001). In conclusion, we did not observe a relationship between lobular architecture and breast cancer susceptibility when using smaller breast samples usually available in epidemiological studies, but these data highlight the need for menstrual phase strati. cation in future investigations.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytologic diagnosis of invasive lobular carcinoma: Factors associated with negative and equivocal diagnoses	Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) is associated with notoriously high rates of false negative and equivocal diagnoses. To identify causative factors, we reviewed the cytologic features of presurgical FNAB smears of ILC and correlated the cytologic findings with the number of passes, tumor size, mammographic findings, and the histologic characteristics of the tumor. Smear cellularity, presence of single intact epithelial cells, nuclear size, nuclear atypia, palpability of the tumor, and histologic type of ILC (classic versus nonclassic) were statistically significant in establishing an unequivocally positive diagnosis. We also found that the cytologic cellularity of the lesion does not reflect the actual cellularity of the tumor but instead is an indicator of the architectural arrangement of the neoplastic cells; tumors that form epithelial cell groups, such as in nonclassic ILC, tend to yield more cellular aspirates that are diagnostic for carcinoma. In contrast, classic ILC, in which single neoplastic cells are embedded in fibrous stroma, is more likely to yield a paucicellular smear with subtle atypia and rare single intact epithelial cells. As such, an inconclusive diagnosis in a certain percentage of classic ILC cases may be unavoidable. Copyright 2004 Wiley-Liss, Inc.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Influence of breast cancer histology on the relationship between ultrasound and pathology tumor size measurements	Establishing an accurate primary invasive breast cancer size is crucial for patient management. Although ultrasonographic measurement is reported to correlate reliably with the gold standard pathology measurement, few authors have examined the influence of histologic subtype on ultrasound measurement. The common subtypes of invasive breast carcinoma, ductal and lobular, have different growth patterns, which may influence the ability of ultrasound to predict pathologic size. For this analysis, ultrasound and pathology reports were retrospectively reviewed for 204 women with 210 invasive breast cancers, including 129 ductal, 41 lobular, and 40 mixed pattern ductal and lobular carcinomas. For each tumor, the largest pathology and ultrasound dimensions were compared using Pearson's correlations, linear regression, paired t-tests and Wilcoxon signed ranks tests, stratified bit histologic subtype. The Hodges-Lehmann approach was used to obtain 95% confidence intervals (Cl) for median difference of the sizes. Ultrasonography consistently underestimated pathologic tumor size; the overall median difference was 3.5 mm (Cl: 2.5-4.0 mm) and for subtypes: 2.5 mm (Cl: 1.5-3.5 mm) for ductal pattern; 3.0 mm (Cl: 1.5-4.5 mm) for mixed pattern; and in contrast, 7.5 mm (Cl: 5.0-13.5 mm) for lobular pattern tumors. Significant correlations of similar magnitude, were observed between size measurements for ductal., lobular, and mixed subtypes (r=0.816, 0.811 and 0.672, respectively; all P0.001); however, linear regression models differed between subtypes. Although practical and widely available, ultrasonography tends to underestimate pathologic tumor size. The size difference may be large for lobular carcinomas, potentially influencing stage; differences are less pronounced for ductal and mixed subtypes. Pathologic tumor size can be estimated from the ultrasonographic measurement, particularly if the histologic tumor subtype is known. The results of this study underscore the continued benefit of pretreatment tumor histology.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of MRI in invasive lobular carcinoma	Purpose. To determine the value of MR imaging in the detection and measurement of tumor size in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) compared to mammography and ultrasound. Materials and methods. From 36 cases of ILC in 34 patients who were surgically treated, the pre-operative imaging measurements, being mammography, ultrasound and contrast enhanced MR, were retrospectively re-evaluated for tumor detection and size. Findings were compared with pathology. Two radiologists were used for evaluation of the mammograms, the other imaging modalities were only evaluated by one radiologist. The Pearsons correlation test was used to determine the correlation between histopathological and imaging measurements for each imaging modality. Results. For mammography, ultrasound and MRI the false negative scores were respectively 14%, 3% and 0%. The percentage for underestimated, correctly estimated and overestimated measurements on imaging were 56%, 33% and 11% for radiologist 1 and 50%, 33% and 17% for radiologist 2 on mammography. For ultrasound and MRI these percentages were respectively 53%, 47%, 0% and 14%, 75%, 11%. The correlation coefficients for mammography were respectively r = 0.34 (p 0.05) and r = 0.27 (p > 0.05) for both radiologists, for Ultrasound r = 0.24 (p > 0.05) and for MRI r = 0.81 (p 0.01). Conclusion. Of the three imaging modalities contrast enhanced MR has the lowest false negative rate in detecting ILC and has the highest accuracy in measuring the size of the ILC. MR could play a key role in the pre-operative work-up for accurate tumor size determination.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clonality of lobular carcinoma in situ and synchronous invasive lobular carcinoma	BACKGROUND. Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) of the breast is considered a marker for an increased risk of carcinoma in both breasts. However, the frequent association of LCIS with invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) suggests a precursor-product relation. The possible genomic relation between synchronous LCIS and 3 ILC was analyzed using the technique of array-based comparative genomic hybridization (CGH). METHODS. Twenty-four samples from the University of California-San Francisco pathology archives that contained synchronous LCIS and ILC were identified. Array CGH was performed using random primer-amplified microdissected DNA. Samples were hybridized onto bacterial artificial chromosome arrays composed of approximately 2400 clones. Patterns of alterations within synchronous LCIS and 2 ILC were compared. RESULTS. A substantial proportion of the genome was altered in samples of both 3 LCIS and ILC. The most frequent alterations were gain of 1q and loss of 16q, both of which usually occurred as whole-arm changes. Smaller regions of gain and loss 4 were seen on other chromosome arms. Fourteen samples of LCIS were related more to their paired samples of ILC than to any other ILC, as demonstrated by a weighted similarity score. CONCLUSIONS. LCIS and ILC are neoplastic lesions that demonstrate a range of genomic alterations. In the current study, the genetic relation between synchronous LCIS and ILC suggested clonality in a majority of the paired specimens. These data were consistent with a progression pathway from LCIS to ILC. The authors conclude that LCIS, which is known to be a marker for an environment that is permissive of neoplasia, may itself represent a precursor to invasive carcinoma. Copyright 2004 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Hormone replacement therapy in relation to breast carcinoma incidence rate ratios - A prospective Danish cohort study	BACKGROUND. The goal of the current study was to investigate the relation between hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and breast carcinoma in a prospective study cohort. Particular attention was paid to the type of HRT used and to the association of HRT type with estrogen receptor status and tumor histology. METHODS. Between 1993 and 1997, a total of 29,875 women were enrolled in the Danish Cancer Society's prospective "Diet, Cancer and Health" study. Among 23,618 women who were assumed to be postmenopausal and for whom information on HRT use was available, we identified 423 cases of breast carcinoma over a median follow-tip period of 4.8 years. Statistical analyses were based on the Cox proportional hazards model, with age serving as the time parameter. RESULTS. The breast carcinoma incidence rate ratio (IRR) was 2.22 (95% confidence interval (CI), 1.80-2.75) for users of HRT at baseline compared with women who never received HRT. Among HRT users (relative to nonusers), the IRR for estrogen receptor-positive tumors (2.38; 95% CI, 1.84-3.06) was greater than the IRR for estrogen receptor-negative tumors (1.56; 95% CI, 1.00-2.43). HRT use at baseline also was analyzed in relation to the incidence of lobular carcinoma and the incidence of ductal carcinoma; the adjusted IRR associated with HRT use was 3.53 (95% CI, 1.94-6.41) for lobular carcinoma and 2.10 (95% CI, 1.64-2.70) for ductal carcinoma. The likelihood of developing estrogen receptor-positive breast carcinoma was found to depend significantly on the type of HRT regimen used (P = 0.03), with women receiving continuous therapy having the greatest probability of developing estrogen receptor-positive disease. CONCLUSIONS. An increased breast carcinoma IRR was found to be associated with current HRT use. In addition, relative to other types of HRT regimens, continuous estrogen + progestin regimens were found to be associated with an increased risk of breast carcinoma, and particularly estrogen receptor-positive breast carcinoma. Copyright 2004 American Cancer Society.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Array-based comparative genomic hybridization of ductal carcinoma in situ and synchronous invasive lobular cancer	It has been increasingly recognized that ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and invasive cancer of the breast are often closely associated with one another. However, the genomic relationship between these histologically distinct entities has not been well characterized. Refinements in high-resolution comparative genomic hybridization (CGH) techniques allow for a detailed comparison of genomic alterations in synchronously occurring tumors. following case illustrates how array CGH may be used to better understand whether synchronous neoplasms share a common orgin. Copyright 2004 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Bilateral carcinomas of the breast with local recurrence: analysis of genetic relationship of the tumors	Local recurrence of bilateral breast carcinomas is rare, but of biological interest, since it is unclear as to which tumor the local recurrence is related to, the ipsilateral or the contralateral, or whether it is an independent neoplasm. The aim of this study was to investigate the genetic relationship of bilateral breast carcinomas to each other and to their local recurrences. Eight cases of bilateral breast carcinomas, five with and three without local recurrence were analyzed using a microsatellite assay for 13 microsatellite loci. The presence of loss of heterozygosity and microsatellite instability in the various tumors was used for clonal analysis. All eight bilateral breast carcinomas showed divergent alterations in at least two microsatellite loci, which ruled out a genetic relationship. Four of five local recurrences were genetically related to the ipsilateral tumor and unrelated to the contralateral tumor. Only one local recurrence that occurred 11.8 years after the surgery of an infiltrative lobular carcinoma simultaneously with distant metastases was genetically related to the contralateral breast carcinoma. Although the number of cases in our study is limited, there is evidence that local recurrence of bilateral breast carcinoma frequently arises from the ipsilateral tumor.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytoplasmic localization of p120ctn and E-cadherin loss characterize lobular breast carcinoma from preinvasive to metastatic lesions	Accumulating evidences indicate that p120 catenin, a member of the E-cadherin (E-CD)/catenin adhesion complex, plays a role in tumor invasion. To establish the expression pattern of p120 in breast cancer, we analysed 326 breast tissue biopsies by tissue microarray. Most of the lobular tumors (88%) showed exclusive cytoplasmic localization, and 6% of them also had p120 nuclear staining. Cytoplasmic p120 strongly associated with complete loss of E-CD and beta-catenin not only in lobular carcinoma and its metastases but also in atypical lobular hyperplasias. In the latter, loss of heterozygosity of E-CD gene was also observed. Complete loss of E-CD and cytoplasmic and nuclear p120 staining was also observed in primary lobular cancer cell cultures generated by us. In ductal tumors, by contrast, reduction of p120 and E-CD in membrane was very common (57 and 53%, respectively), whereas cytoplasmic p120 staining was rarely seen. This simultaneous reduction of membranous E-CD and p120 was not associated with increased Src kinase activity. To demonstrate that cytoplasmic p120 localization was a consequence of the absence of E-CD, the endogenous E-CD was re-expressed in MDA-231 cells by 5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5Aza) treatment. After treatment, p120 shifted from the cytoplasm to the membrane, where it colocalized with endogenous E-CD. Additionally, suppressing E-CD expression in Madin-Darby canine kidney cells by stable transfection of the transcriptional repressors Snail, E47 or Slug, provokes p120 cytoplasmic localization and p120 isoform switching. In conclusion, abnormal cytoplasmic and nuclear localization of p120, which are mediated by the absence of E-CD, characteristically occur in the early stages of lobular breast cancer and are maintained during tumor progression to metastasis. Consequently, p120 may be an important mediator of the oncogenic effects derived from E-CD inactivation, including enhanced motility and invasion, in lobular breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Survival of women with breast cancer in Ottawa, Canada: variation with age, stage, histology, grade and treatment	This study examined the 5-year survival of 2192 breast cancer women diagnosed between 1994 and 1997 in Ottawa, Canada, by age, TNM stage, histology, grade and treatment, including assessment of the independent value of variables in defining prognosis. Our results showed that age, stage, treatment and grade significantly influenced outcome regardless of the confounding factors considered, with histology failing to achieve significant independent prognostic information. The survival rates were highest at ages 50-69 years for stage I and at ages 40-49 years for stages II-IV. The rates were lowest at ages ltoreq39 years for stages I-II and at ages gtoreq70 years for stages III-IV. The differences in survival between grade 1 and grade 3 were 9% in stage I and 20% in stage II. The treatment leading to the best survival was surgery plus radiation for stages I-II and surgery combined with chemotherapy for stages III-IV. Lobular carcinoma had a better prognosis than ductal carcinoma; this can be explained by more grade I and less grade 3 cases in lobular carcinoma. The worse prognosis for young patients than other ages can be explained by their higher proportion of poorly differentiated cancers. Stage I patients aged 50-69 years having the best survival is likely due to the earlier diagnosis achieved through screening.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Stereotactic vacuum-assisted breast biopsy (VB) in 2874 patients: a multicenter study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast carcinoma presenting as a benign appearing mass: a radiological-pathological pictorial review		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The progesterone receptor has a prognostic value in oestrogen receptor negative breast cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Are lobular carcinomas more often steroid receptor positive?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	How much can new imaging modalities improve tumour staging?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	How much can new imaging modalities improve tumour staging?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The clinical and prognostic implications of isolated supraclavicular fossa recurrence		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Salient characteristics of infiltrating ductal carcinoma and invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Salient characteristics of infiltrating ductal carcinoma and invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Peritumoral lymph vascular density correlates with lymph node metastases in invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Peritumoral lymph vascular density correlates with lymph node metastases in invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer. A ten year (1992-2001) review of 99 cases		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Optical biopsy-a new method in tumour diagnosis	A introduction to breast cancer and its diagnosis is given for the non-specialist.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	False-negative frozen section of sentinel lymph node biopsy for breast cancer.	A prospective study is presented of frozen section examinations (FS) performed in parallel with 265 consecutive sentinel lymph node procedures (SLNP) over a 20-month period. The final pathological study included immunohistochemistry (IHC) for keratin if the haematoxylin-eosin (HE)-stained section was tumour free. FS correctly identified node-positive or node-negative axillae in 235 cases. In 28 SLNPs the final examination gave a positive result not detected in the FS, resulting in reoperation. In 21 of these false-negative (FN) cases micrometastases (MIM) were present. There were no false-positive cases, but in two cases of tobular carcinoma the findings in the FS were equivocal, the final reports recording metastases in one but not in the other. Lobular carcinoma and other less common subtypes of carcinoma were overrepresented, ductal carcinoma not otherwise specified (NOS) being less likely to affect the FN findings.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer presenting initially with urinary incontinence: A case of bladder metastasis from breast cancer.	Bladder metastasis from breast cancer is rare. Patients with breast cancer, in particular patients with a lobular carcinoma subtype, who present with urinary symptoms including incontinence, hematuria, dysuria, and frequency should have the possibility of bladder metastases kept in mind and investigated with cystoscopy and imaging as necessary.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Does the correlation between EBNA-1 and p63 expression in breast carcinomas provide a clue to tumorigenesis in Epstein-Barr virus-related breast malignancies?	Several investigators have identified Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) particles in breast carcinomas, a fact that supports a role for EBV in mammary tamorigenesis. The possible mechanism involved in this process is not clear. The present study was carried out in an attempt to determine whether there is a relationship between latent infection with EBV and p53 and p63 expression in breast carcinomas. Immunohistochemistry developed with 3.3-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride was performed in 85 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded breast carcinomas using anti-EBV EBNA-1, anti-p63, anti-p53, anti-estrogen receptor (ER) and anti-progesterone receptor (PR) antibodies. The cases were selected to represent each of the various histologic types: intraductal carcinoma (N=12), grade I invasive ductal carcinoma (N=15), grade II invasive ductal carcinoma (N=15), grade III invasive ductal carcinoma (N=15), tubular carcinoma (N=8), lobular carcinoma (N=10), and medullary carcinoma (N=10). The ductal breast carcinomas were graded I, II and III based on the Scarff-Bloom and Richardson grading system modified by Elston and Ellis. One slide containing at least 1000 neoplastic cells was examined in each case. ER, PR, p63, p53 and EBNA-1 were positive in 60, 40, 11.8, 21.2 and 37.6% of carcinomas, respectively. There was a correlation between EBNA-1 and p63 expression (P<0.001), but not between EBNA-1 and p53 (P=0.10). These data suggest a possible role for p63 in the mammary tumorigenesis associated with Epstein-Barr virus infection.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Does 99mTc-sestamibi uptake discriminate breast tumors?	The aim of this work was to investigate 99mTc-sestamibi uptake and histopathological characteristics of breast tumors. Static 99mTc-sestamibi scintimammography (SMM) has been performed in 101 breast tumors (98 patients). SMM were scored from 0 to 4 according to intensity of 99mTc-sestamibi uptake and classified in two groups: SMM with absence or low tumor uptake (0, 1, 2) and SMM with high tumor uptake (3, 4). Tumor histopathological characteristics have been determined on core or excisional biopsy. The 99mTc-sestamibi uptake (low vs. high) correlated to classical prognostic factors: positively with Scarff-Bloom and Richardson (SBR) grade (p < 0.0005), axillary involvement (p < 0.0005), and tumor size (p < 0.0005) and negatively with estrogen receptors (p < 0.001). Fixation of 99mTc-sestamibi in invasive lobular carcinoma was lower than in invasive ductal carcinoma (p < 0.01) despite a similar mean tumor size (28 +/- 14 mm vs. 24 +/- 14 mm). Relations between 99mTc-sestamibi uptake and tumor size, histologic type, and axillary involvement were independent variables also significant in multivariate analysis (p < 0.0005, p < 0.005, p < 0.05, respectively). Moreover, the five-year survival rate was higher when 99mTc-sestamibi breast tumor uptake was low (p < 0.005). This difference is also significant using the Cox model (p < 0.05). Uptake of 99mTc-sestamibi (low vs. high) discriminates breast tumors with different histopathological characteristics and prognosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Role of laparoscopy in the evaluation of the adnexa in patients with stage IV breast cancer.	Objective: To describe the utility of laparoscopic evaluation of adnexal masses in women with stage IV breast cancer. Methods: A retrospective review of gynecologic and breast surgery databases at our institution was performed to identify patients with stage IV breast cancer who underwent surgical evaluation for an adnexal mass or bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy (BSO) between January 1986 and August 2002. Patient demographics and operative and pathologic findings were reviewed. Results: Thirty-one patients were identified. Median age was 47 years (range, 25-79 years). Pathology of the primary breast tumor was infiltrating ductal carcinoma in 58%, invasive lobular carcinoma in 29%, and unspecified in 13%. Median time from diagnosis of stage IV breast cancer to surgical evaluation of the adnexa was 15 months (range, 0-106 months). Surgery consisted of planned laparotomy in four patients and laparoscopic evaluation in 27 patients. Six patients had laparoscopic BSO for hormonal ablation. The remaining 21 patients had laparoscopic evaluation of an adnexal mass. Conversion to laparotomy occurred in three patients based on intraoperative findings of suspected primary ovarian cancer and for technical reasons in one patient. Overall, metastatic breast cancer was diagnosed in 21 (68%) of 31 patients, including two patients with occult metastases undergoing BSO for hormonal ablation. Primary ovarian cancer was found in 3 (10%) of 31 patients, and 7 (22%) of 31 patients had benign findings. Pathologic intraoperative frozen section was obtained in 21 (84%) of 25 patients undergoing laparoscopic evaluation for an adnexal mass. Intraoperative frozen section was concordant with final pathology in 20 (95%) of 21 patients (18 on laparoscopic evaluation, two on laparotomy). Conclusions: The majority of patients with stage IV breast cancer who present with an adnexal mass will be diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer. A small subset of patients will be diagnosed with primary ovarian cancer; thus, the evaluation of an adnexal mass even in this stage IV setting is warranted. Accurate diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer versus ovarian cancer can be made laparoscopically, thereby avoiding laparotomy in the metastatic breast cancer setting.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Salvage treatment for local recurrence after breast-conserving surgery followed by radiation as initial treatment for mammographically-detected ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Early nuclear alterations and immunohistochemical expression of Ki-67, Erb-B2, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), transforming growth factor (TGF-BETA 1) and integrine-linked kinase (ILK) two days after tamoxifen in breast carcinoma	The purpose of the present study was to evaluate breast carcinoma samples before and two days after treatment with tamoxifen in order to analyse early histopathological alterations - particularly nuclear alterations - as well as immunohistochemical expression of Ki-67, Erb-B2, VEGF, TGf-beta 1 and ILK proteins. Twenty one cases of invasive ductal and lobular breast carcinoma were studied. Patients were submitted to biopsy of the lesion and, after confirmation of the diagnosis, they received 20 mg of tamoxifen a day, beginning two days before surgery. The samples obtained during biopsy and after surgery were stained with HE for histopathological diagnosis. Estrogen receptor was positive in IS cases and negative in 3. The immunohistochemical method was applied for the detection of Ki-67, Erb-B2, protein, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta 1) and integrin linked kinase (ILK). Two days after tamoxifen treatment, the following results were observed: 1) decrease in the cell volume, chomatine condensation, nucleoli less evident and clearly defined nuclear limits; 2) significant reduction in the expression of Erb-B2 protein and significant increase in the expression of TGF-beta 1 protein; 3) expression of others proteins (Ki-67, VEGF and ILK) was not altered during the indicated time frame. Our results suggest that analyzing nuclear alterations and expression of Erb-B2 and TGF-beta 1 proteins would be useful to assess the initial response to tamoxifen.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Evaluation of histological diagnostic accuracy with ultrasound-guided core needle breast biopsy	Objective To investigate the accuracy of the histological diagnosis of ultrasound-guided coreneedle breast biopsy (CNB) and to find out the factors influencing the diagnosis. Methods Data were collected retrospectively for 72 ultrasound-guided CNB that were followed by open biopsy (OB). The principal histological findings obtained at CNB and OB were identified for each procedure and the degree of agreement was assessed. Results Of seventy-two lesions, CNB identified invasive breast carcinoma in forty-three, atypical ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in three, benign in twenty and nonspecific in six. The principle histology identified at CNB was confirmed at OB for 90% of the lesions, generating a kappa value of 0. 798 (P0. 01). The sensitivity for malignancy with CNB was 92% and the specificity was 100%. The reasons for cancers missed by CNB included clinical sampling error in 2 cases, histological underdiagnosis for 3 cases and inadequate management strategy for 1 case. There were some difficulties with CNB in the diagnosis of DCIS, early invasive ductal carcinoma and infiltrative lobular carcinoma. Conclusions Ultrasound-guided coreneedle breast biopsy is a sensitive, as well as a high specific diagnostic method, except for a few special kinds of breast diseases.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	DNA methylation of RASSF1A, HIN-1, RAR-beta, Cyclin D2 and Twist in in situ and invasive lobular breast carcinoma.	Little is known about epigenetic silencing of genes by promoter hypermethylation in lobular breast cancers. The promoter methylation status of 5 cancer-related genes (RASSF1A, HIN-1, RAR-beta, Cyclin D2 and Twist) was evaluated in 2 types of lobular cancers, in situ (LCIS) and invasive lobular carcinomas (ILC) (n=32), and compared to ductal in situ (DCIS) and invasive (IDC) breast cancers (n=71). By using methylation-specific PCR (MSP), 100% of ILC and 69% of LCIS cases were found to have 1 or more hypermethylated genes among the panel of 5 genes (compared to 100% IDC and 95% of DCIS). Two or more hypermethylated genes were detected per tumor in 79% of invasive and 61% of in situ lobular carcinomas compared to 81% of IDC and 77% of DCIS. By contrast, DNA from nearly all normal reduction mammoplasty tissues (n=8) was unmethylated for the 5 genes. The methylation profiles of lobular vs. ductal carcinomas with respect to RASSF1A, Cyclin D2, RARbeta, and Hin-1 genes were similar, suggesting that gene silencing by promoter hypermethylation is likely to be important in both groups of diseases. Distinctly different, Twist was hypermethylated less often in ILC (16%, 3/19 cases) than in IDC (56%, 15/27 cases) (p=0.01). These results suggest that these 2 types of tumors share many common methylation patterns and some molecular differences. Additional studies might lend further understanding into the etiology and clinical behavior of this tumor type.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Reproductive and anthropometric factors in relation to the risk of lobular and ductal breast carcinoma among women 65-79 years of age.	Use of combined estrogen-progestin hormone replacement therapy appears to be associated with an increased risk of invasive lobular breast carcinomas (ILC) and, to a lesser degree, with risk of invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC). Conceivably, ILCs are more hormonally responsive and so may be more strongly associated than IDCs with reproductive and anthropometric characteristics that can influence hormone levels. However, few epidemiologic studies of breast cancer have evaluated these factors by histologic type. We conducted a population-based case-control study of women aged 65-79 years in western Washington State. Responses from 975 women diagnosed with breast cancer during 1997-1999 were compared to those of 1,007 controls. Associations between various reproductive and anthropometric factors and risks of IDC (n = 656) and ILC (n = 196) were evaluated using polytomous logistic regression. Earlier age at men-arche, later age at menopause and obesity were more strongly associated with elevated risks of IDC than ILC. Alternatively, oral contraceptive use was associated with an increased risk of ILC but not IDC. Thus, the pattern of results that we observed suggest that factors influencing endogenous hormones and duration of ovarian function may be more strongly associated with IDC risk, while exogenous hormones may be more strongly associated with ILC risk.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oral metastasis of breast carcinoma diagnosed by fine needle aspiration cytolog: A case report.	BACKGROUND: Fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) is an important technique in the diagnosis of oral and maxillofacial conditions. The purpose of the present paper is to report a case of oral metastasis of breast carcinoma diagnosed by FNAC. CASE: A 45-year-old, black woman was referred for evaluation of symptomatic swelling in the left mandible. The medical history revealed that the patient had undergone extensive surgery to remove a lobular carcinoma. She had finished chemotherapy treatment about 5 months earlier. Due to the main diagnostic considerations of metastatic and inflammatory disease, FNAC FNAC was performed. The cytologic picture was consistent with a metastatic glandular neoplasm. CONCLUSION: FNAC is a safe, reliable, cost-effective and easy procedure and sometimes eliminates the need for open biopsy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Differentiation of lobular versus ductal breast carcinomas by expression microarray analysis.	Invasive lobular and ductal breast tumors have distinct histologies and clinical presentation. Other than altered expression of E-cadherin, little is known about the underlying biology that distinguishes the tumor subtypes. We used cDNA microarrays to identify genes differentially expressed between lobular and ductal tumors. Unsupervised clustering of tumors failed to distinguish between the two subtypes. Prediction analysis for microarrays (PAM) was able to predict tumor type with an accuracy of 93.7%. Genes that were significantly differentially expressed between the two groups were identified by MaxT permutation analysis using t tests (20 cDNA clones and 10 unique genes), significance analysis for microarrays (33 cDNA clones and 15 genes, at an estimated false discovery rate of 2%), and PAM (31 cDNAs and 15 genes). There were 8 genes identified by all three of these related methods (E-cadherin, survivin, cathepsin B, TP11, SPRY1, SCYA14, TFAP2B, and thrombospondin 4), and an additional 3 that were identified by significance analysis for microarrays and PAM (osteopontin, HLA-G, and CHC1). To validate the differential expression of these genes, 7 of them were tested by real-time quantitative PCR, which verified that they were differentially expressed in lobular versus ductal tumors. In conclusion, specific changes in gene expression distinguish lobular from ductal breast carcinomas. These genes may be important in understanding the basis of phenotypic differences among breast cancers.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Risk of mortality by histologic type of breast cancer among women aged 50 to 79 years.	Background: Recent studies suggest that the use of combined estrogen and progestin hormone replacement therapy is associated with an increased risk of invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC), but that it has little association with risk of invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC). Also, the incidence rates of ILC have risen over the past 10 years while those of IDC have remained constant. Differences in survival rates by histologic types of tumor have been reported, but few of the published studies were population based or had adequate power to address this issue. Methods: We conducted a retrospective cohort study spanning the years 1974 through 1998 using data from the 9 cancer registries that have participated in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program since 1974. The cohort consisted of 164958 women aged 50 to 79 years who had been diagnosed as having 1 of 7 histologic types of invasive breast cancer. Risks of mortality due to any cause were estimated using the Cox proportional hazards model. Results: Women with ILC had a risk of mortality 11% lower than women with IDC. The magnitude of this difference has increased over the past 10 years and, from 1994 through 1998, the risk of mortality was 26% lower for women with ILC. Also, the risk of mortality was between 8% and 34% lower in women with mucinous carcinoma, comedocarcinoma, or medullary, tubular, and papillary carcinomas compared with women with IDC. Conclusions: Differences in prognosis by histologic type of breast cancer were identified. The survival rate of women 50 to 79 years old who have ILC, the cancer whose histologic type is the most closely linked with the use of combined estrogen and progestin hormone replacement therapy, is more favorable than that of women with IDC and appears to be improving over time.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Oral contraceptive use and risk of breast cancer by histologic type.	We examined the association between oral contraceptive use and risk of specific breast cancer histopathologies in a large, multi-center, population-based, case-control study. Women younger than age 75 with a new diagnosis of invasive breast cancer were identified from 4 statewide tumor registries. We compared women with lobular (n=493) and ductal carcinoma (n=5,510) to randomly selected controls (n=9,311). Odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for each histologic type were estimated using polytomous logistic regression, adjusted for other breast cancer risk factors. Current oral contraceptive use was associated with increased risk of lobular carcinoma (OR=2.6, 95% CI=1.0-7.1) and there was a significant trend (p=0.017) of increased risk with more recent use. Oral contraceptive use was not clearly associated with ductal carcinoma (OR=1.2, 95% CI=0.8-1.9). These results suggest that the association between oral contraceptive use and risk of breast cancer may vary by histologic type.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Reduced expression of oestrogen receptor beta in invasive breast cancer and its re-expression using DNA methyl transferase inhibitors in a cell line model.	To gain insights into the possible role of oestrogen receptor (ER) beta in breast carcinogenesis, immunohistochemical analysis of ER beta was performed on 512 breast specimens encompassing normal (n=138), pure ductal carcinoma in situ (n=16), invasive cancers (n=319), lymph node metastases (n=31), and recurrences (n=8). Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to investigate the methylation status of the ER beta gene in the ER beta negative breast cancer cell lines SkBr3 and MDA-MB-435. A gradual reduction in, but not a complete loss of, ER beta expression was observed during the transition from normal and pre-invasive lesions to invasive cancers, where ER beta was lost in 21% of cases. This was more pronounced in invasive ductal than in lobular carcinomas, a significantly higher proportion of which were ER beta-positive (74% compared with 91%, respectively, p=0.0004). Examination of paired primary cancers with their axillary lymph node metastases showed that if ER beta was present in the primary tumour, it persisted in the metastasis. Treatment of ER beta-negative cell lines with DNA methyl transferase inhibitors restored ER beta expression, providing experimental evidence that silencing of ER beta in breast carcinomas could be due to promoter hypermethylation. These results suggest that loss of ER beta expression is one of the hallmarks of breast carcinogenesis and that it may be a reversible process involving methylation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Levels of expression of lipoxygenases and cyclooxygenase-2 in human breast cancer.	Lipoxygenases and cyclooxygenase are key mediators of arachidonic acid metabolism. The eicosanoids metabolites from these oxygynases have been shown to regulate the growth and death of cancer cells. This study determined the level of expression of 5-, 12-, 15-lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase-2 expression in a cohort of breast cancer patients and their correlation with clinical outcomes. Compared with normal breast tissues, tumour tissues exhibited a significantly higher levels of 12-lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase-2 (P<0.05), and significantly lower level of 15-lipoxygenase (P=0.05). Lobular carcinomas had a higher level of cyclooxygenase-2 and lower level of 15-lipoxygenase than ductal carcinomas. The lowest level of 15-lipoxygenase was seen in TNM3 and TNM4 tumours and from patients who died of breast cancer. Levels of 12- and 5-lipoxygenases were also particularly high in tumours from patients who died of breast cancer. This study shows that human breast tumours aberrantly express lipoxygenases and cyclooxygenase-2 and that decreased level of 15-lipoxygenase and raised level of cyclooxygenase-2 and 12-lipoxygenase has prognostic value in patients with breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Early changes in apoptosis and proliferation following primary chemotherapy for breast cancer.	Patients undergoing primary chemotherapy for invasive breast cancer consented to a core biopsy of the invasive breast primary pre- and 24 h postchemotherapy. The resulting tissue was analysed for apoptosis, Ki67, ER and HER-2 using immunohistochemical techniques. These data were then used to evaluate the relationship between these biological markers and response to chemotherapy and overall survival. Response rate to chemotherapy in this group was 86%, 16 patients (25%) achieved a clinical complete response and 41 (63%) a partial response. Prechemotherapy there was a significant correlation between Ki67 and apoptotic index (AI), r=0.6, (P<0.001). A significant rise in AI (P<0.001), and fall in Ki67 (P=0.002) was seen 24 h following chemotherapy. No relationship was seen between pretreatment AI and clinical response, but higher Ki67 and growth index (Ki67/AI ratio, GI) did correlate with clinical response (both r=0.31, P<0.025). No correlation was seen between the change in AI or Ki67 at 24 h and clinical response or survival. Significant changes in apoptosis and proliferation can be demonstrated 24 h following chemotherapy, but these changes do not relate to clinical response or outcome in this study. Pretreatment proliferation and GI are however predictive of response to chemotherapy in breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast cancer in the elderly: Epidemiological characteristics and treatment approach.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Anthracyclin-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy for large breast carcinoma: Predictors and significance of breast preserving surgery.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytoplasmic accumulation of p120 catenin and lack of E-cadherin expression characterize lobular breast carcinoma from pre-invasive to metastasic lesions.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Delineation of genome copy number changes in pre-invasive and invasive lobular neoplasia by comparative genomic hybridization to cDNA microarrays.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Important increase of invasive lobular breast cancer incidence in Geneva, Switzerland.	A recent paper from the United States reported a sharp and unexplained increase in invasive lobular breast cancer incidence since 1977 (Li et al., Cancer 2000;88:2561-9). We investigated if this trend was also present in Geneva, Switzerland, where breast cancer incidence is one of the highest in Europe. We analyzed trends in breast cancer incidence according to histologic subtype, age and stage, to clarify the pattern. Our population-based study includes all histologically confirmed invasive breast carcinomas (n = 6,247) recorded between 1976 and 1999 at the Geneva Cancer Registry. Breast histology was classified as ductal carcinoma, lobular carcinoma and other. Incidence trends were studied by log-linear regression analyses. Models including effects of age, period and birth cohorts were used to describe rising incidence trends. The incidence of ductal carcinoma increased 1.2% per year (ptrend < 0.001) from 85.2 to 110.1/100,000. This increase concerned women aged 50-69 years and early-stage tumors. Lobular cancer incidence increased disproportionately (14.4% per year, ptrend < 0.01) and rose from 2.9 to 20.5/100,000. This increase affected all age categories and both localized and advanced stages. In addition, a strong age-cohort effect was present (p < 0.05), and women aged 50-59 years born after 1944 experienced the most marked increase. Our study shows a disproportionate increase of lobular breast cancer incidence compared to ductal cancer incidence. Contrary to ductal cancer, trends for lobular cancer are unlikely to be explained by increased use of screening mammography. Other explanations must be researched, in particular the role played by hormone replacement therapy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of cell-cell adhesion molecules of E-cadherin and beta-catenin in infiltrating breast carcinoma.	Distribution of cell-cell adhesion molecules of E-cadherin (EC) and beta-catenin (BC) infiltrating breast carcinoma (BC) and markers of epithelium, basal membrane has been studied by immunofluorescence in 50 infiltrating BC tissue samples including 17 ductal carcinomas, 23 lobular carcinomas and 10 combined carcinomas. Two types of EC-BC structure alterations were found: homogeneity disorder accompanied by appearance of local thickening and gaps or complete lack of these structures. Alterations of type 1 were found in all the analyzed samples of ductal and combined carcinomas and partially in lobular carcinomas, in in situ structures and in invasion components as well. Alterations of type 2 were found in 16 cases of lobular carcinomas of 23 examined. Our data suggest the existence of two groups of lobular BC: carcinomas with partial depletion of EC-BC structures and carcinomas which lost these structures. Further investigations are needed to evaluate clinical importance of the difference found.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Trends in incidence rates of invasive lobular and ductal breast carcinoma.	Context Research has suggested that use of combined estrogen and progestin hormone replacement therapy (CHRT) increases breast cancer risk and that CHRT use is more strongly associated with the risk of invasive lobular breast carcinoma than that of invasive ductal carcinoma. Lobular carcinoma is less common than ductal carcinoma but can be more difficult to diagnose because of its subtle elusive infiltrative pattern. Objective To evaluate trends in invasive lobular and ductal carcinoma incidence rates from 1987 through 1999, during which time use of CHRT increased in the United States. Design Descriptive epidemiologic study. Setting Nine cancer registries that participate in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) program of the National Cancer Institute and that cover Atlanta, Ga; Detroit, Mich; San Francisco-Oakland, Calif; Seattle, Wash; and Connecticut, Hawaii, Iowa, New Mexico, and Utah. Population Women 30 years of age and older residing in the areas covered by the 9 SEER registries. Main Outcome Measures Proportional changes in incidence rates of invasive lobular and ductal carcinoma among women with no prior history of breast cancer. Results A total of 190458 women were included in this analysis who were identified through the registries as having invasive breast cancer; 7682 of the 198140 potentially eligible women (ie, those identified as not having in situ breast cancer) were excluded from this analysis because stage of cancer was unknown. Invasive breast cancer incidence rates adjusted for age and for SEER historic stage increased 1.04-fold (95% confidence interval (CI), 1.004-1.07) from 1987-1999 (206.7/100 000 to 214.1/100 000, age-adjusted). However, incidence rates of tumors classified as lobular increased 1.52-fold (95% Cl, 1.42-1.63), and those classified as mixed ductal-lobular increased 1.96-fold (95% Cl, 1.80-2.14); rates of these types combined increased 1.65-fold (95% Cl, 1.55-1.78) (19.8/100 000 to 33.4/100 000, age-adjusted). In contrast, ductal carcinoma rates remained largely constant (153.8/100 000 to 155.3/100 000, age-adjusted; proportional change, 1.03 (95% CI, 0.99-1.06)). The proportion of breast cancers with a lobular component increased from 9.5% in 1987 to 15.6% in 1999. Conclusions Ductal carcinoma incidence rates remained essentially constant from 1987-1999 while lobular carcinoma rates increased steadily. This increase presents a clinical challenge given that lobular carcinoma is more difficult to detect than ductal carcinoma by both physical examination and mammography.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Fine needle aspiration cytology of lobular breast carcinoma: Comparison with other breast lesions.	OBJECTIVE: To analyze the detailed cytomorphology of lobular breast carcinoma and to compare the cytologic smears of benign, borderline and infiltrating duct carcinoma STUDY DESIGN: Fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) smears of histopathologically proven infiltrating lobular carcinoma (ILC), infiltrating ductal carcinoma (IDC), borderline lesions and benign breast lesions were selected for study. Detailed cytomorphologic analysis of the smears was carried out on hematoxylin and eosin-and May-Grunwald-Giemsa-stained slides, and a comparison of results was done. The various cytologic features were also graded semi-quantitatively with the numerical score; logistic regression analysis was done. RESULTS: There were 25 cases of ILC, 30 of IDC, and 10 borderline and 18 benign lesions. Cytologic diagnosis of malignancy on FNAC smears of ILC was offered in 19 cases; of them, 2 cases were diagnosed as ILC. The remaining six cases were diagnosed as borderline (four) and benign lesions (two). Overall sensitivity in detection of malignancy in ILC cases was 76%. FNAC smears of ILC showed moderate (52%) to abundant (32%) cellularity. The cells of ILC were arranged both in clusters and in dissociation (72%). Individual cells were monomorphic (40%) to mildly pleomorphic (60%), and the cells were smaller. The cells showed a smooth, regular nuclear margin; bland chromatin; and indistinct nucleoli. Indian file arrangement was frequently observed (28%). Nuclear molding (28%) and intranuclear inclusions (16%) were also noted. Intracytoplasmic lumina were seen in occasional cases. Logistic regression analysis was carried out, and a comparison between lobular carcinoma and ductal carcinoma, and borderline and benign lesions was done. Logistic regression analysis of cytomorphologic features showed that cellularity and nuclear margin irregularities were the two most important features to distinguish ILC from IDC. In comparison to borderline lesions, cell dissociation was more common in ILC. The salient cytologic features that helped to distinguish ILC from benign lesions was cell size, cellularity, cell uniformity and chromatin pattern. CONCLUSION: There are overlapping cytologic features between ILC, IDC and borderline breast lesions on FNAC smears. Logistic regression analysis may be helpful in this regard.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive mammary carcinoma after immediate and short-term follow-up for lobular neoplasia on core biopsy.	Lobular neoplasia (LN), including atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH) and lobular carcinoma in situ, may be encountered in breast core biopsies performed for mammographic abnormalities even though LN is often not, in itself, responsible for the abnormal mammogram. The need for surgical excision following a diagnosis of LN on core biopsy is not well defined. We examined pathologic and mammographic findings in a consecutive series of cases diagnosed as LN to address this issue. Radiology/pathology records were reviewed for cases with a pathology diagnosis of pure LN during the period 1998-2001. Specifically excluded were cases with associated atypical ductal hyperplasia, ductal carcinoma in situ, invasive mammary carcinoma, or any history of breast malignancy. Thirty-five women 39-76 years of age (mean 52 years) were identified. Specimens were obtained as stereotactic core (31) or limited wire-guided biopsy (four). The diagnoses were lobular carcinoma in situ (12), lobular carcinoma in situ/ALH (10), and ALH (13). Fourteen patients did not undergo excisional biopsy and had no subsequent clinical follow-up to warrant additional biopsy (follow-up 6 months to 3 years). Five patients had no immediate excision, but eventually during clinical follow-up for LN (1 month to 3 years), two developed mammographic lesions in the ipsilateral (one patient) or contralateral breast (one patient) that led to diagnoses of invasive mammary carcinoma (lobular and composite ductal-lobular types, 10 and 8 mm, respectively); three patients had subsequent mammographic findings in the ipsilateral or contralateral breast leading to biopsies showing only LN (two patients) or no neoplastic pathology (one patient). The remaining 16 patients (all core biopsied) underwent immediate wire-guided excisions. Thirteen (81%) showed additional foci of LN, one (6.3%) with atypical ductal hyperplasia, and two (12.5%) with invasive lobular carcinoma (3 mm and <1 mm). Three (19%) had no residual disease; however, additional clinical follow-up in one of these patients revealed an invasive mammary carcinoma in the contralateral breast (false-negative mammography). Radiographic findings were calcifications and density/mass lesions in 27 and 8 cases, respectively. Of 27 cases presenting with Ca2+, 10 showed colocalization of LN and Ca2+. In the eight cases presenting with density/mass, incidental microscopic microcalcifications colocalized to LN were found in two cases. When present, histologic Ca2+ was associated with LN in 12 of 29 cases studied (41%). Of the 21 patients with immediate or subsequent excision, five (24%) were found to have an associated invasive mammary carcinoma (two on immediate excision and three after short-term follow-up of up to 3 years). The bilaterality of cancer risk was expected; however, the number of invasive carcinomas was not. That the invasive carcinomas detected at follow-up were small implies that they might have been present (but occult) at initial presentation. We conclude that lobular carcinoma in situ detected on core biopsy is potentially a significant marker for concurrent and near-term breast pathology requiring complete intensive multidisciplinary clinical follow-up with specific individualization of patient care.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	p21WAF1 expression in invasive breast cancer and its association with p53, AP-2, cell proliferation, and prognosis.	Aims: To evaluate the expression and prognostic relevance of p21WAF1 in breast cancer and to investigate its association with p53, activator protein 2 (AP-2), and cell proliferation (as assessed by Ki-67 expression). Methods: p21WAF1 expression was analysed immunohistochemically in a large prospective, consecutive series of 420 patients with breast cancer diagnosed and treated between 1990 and 1995 at Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, Finland. Inter-relations between p21WAF1 expression and p53, AP-2, and Ki-67 were evaluated. The expression of p21WAF1 was also compared with clinicopathological parameters and the patients' survival. Results: In general, nuclear p21WAF1 expression was low in carcinomas (median, 2.5%; range, 0-70%). Expression was lowest in lobular carcinomas (chi2=7.4; p=0.025). p21WAF1 positive tumours were more often p53 positive (chi2=.4.2; p=0.041) but expression of p21WAF1 did not correlate with AP-2 expression or Ki-67 in the whole patient group. In addition, the combined expression of p21 and p53 was not associated with AP-2 expression. High nuclear p21WAF1 positivity (n=160; 38%) was associated with poor differentiation (chi2=8.1; p=0.017). In the univariate analyses, p21WAF1 expression had no prognostic value for predicting breast cancer related survival (BCRS) or recurrence free survival (RFS) in the whole patient group or in the subgroups investigated. However, in postmenopausal patients with lymph node metastases, and oestrogen receptor (ER) and/or progesterone receptor (PR) positive tumours, high p21WAF1 expression predicted response to adjuvant hormonal treatment with antioestrogens. In the univariate analysis, the significant factors for predicting BCRS were Ki-67 expression, stage, lymph node status, histological grade, ER and PR status, and those for RFS were Ki-67 expression, stage, and lymph node status. In the multivariate analysis, the independent predictors of shorter BCRS were high cell proliferation activity measured by Ki-67 expression (p<0.001), advanced stage (p<0.001), and poor differentiation (p=0.048). Shorter RFS was independently predicted by high cell proliferative activity (p<0.001) and advanced stage (p<0.001). Conclusions: The regulation of p21WAF1 seems to occur independently of p53 or AP-2 and analysing p21WAF1 expression provided no prognostic information for patients with breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Comparison of FDG-PET and dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI in the evaluation of suggestive breast lesions.	The aim of our study was a direct comparison of the ability of positron-emission tomography with FDG-PET and of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to determine whether breast lesions were benign or malignant and of the two imaging methods capability of depicting eventual multifocal disease. We performed both PET and MRI in 36 patients (40 lesions) who were scheduled for surgery because of suggestive mammographic, sonographic and/or clinical findings. A final histological classification was available for all lesions. Tumour size ranged from 5 to 45 mm (mean 16.7 mm). Sensitivity for lesions, sensitivity for patients, specificity for lesions and specificity for patients were 68.0%, 76.2%, 73.3%, and 73.3% for PET and 92.0%, 95.2%, 73.3%, and 73.3% for MRI, respectively. MRI was more sensitive than FDG-PET in disclosing malignant breast tumours and was also more accurate than FDG-PET in the assessment of multifocal disease. The lower sensitivity of FDG-PET than of MRI seems to be due to difficulties in reliable imaging of carcinomas smaller than 10 mm and of lobular carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Surgical treatment for invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast.	The management and outcome of 131 women with infiltrating lobular carcinoma treated in the Belfast City Hospital between October 1987 and February 1999 were reviewed. Two patients had primary hormonal treatment and were excluded from the statistical analysis, and 129 patients were followed up. Fifty-four patients (41%) had initial breast conservation surgery, which was followed by re-excision of margins in eight patients (14.8%) and completion total mastectomy in 26 patients (48.1%). The breast conservation surgery group, 28 patients (21.7%), was compared with the total mastectomy group, 101 patients (78.2%), after a median follow-up period of 90 months (range 24-160 months). The overall survival was 68.7%. Survival analysis was performed using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression which showed that lymph node involvement and tumour grade were the only variables affecting survival (P < 0.0001, and 0.01, respectively). The type of surgery performed did not affect survival (P = 0.42). The total number of patients who developed local recurrence was 17 patients (13.1%, 12 patients in the breast conservation surgery group and five patients in the total mastectomy group, P < 0.0001). Kaplan-Meier analysis of local recurrence showed that the type of surgery (P < 0.0001), patient age (P = 0.02), tumour grade (P = 0.002), adjuvant radiotherapy (P = 0.013), chemotherapy (P = 0.031) and hormonal treatment (P = 0.003) significantly affected local recurrence. Cox regression analysis showed that the only factor significantly affecting local recurrence was the type of surgery performed (P = 0.02). Patients who underwent mastectomy had less local recurrence than those who had breast conservation surgery. Local recurrence after breast conservation surgery is high, even with clear surgical margins and post-operative radiotherapy. The authors believe that total mastectomy for infiltrating lobular carcinoma is a safer option to control local disease, especially in younger patients and those with high-grade tumours. Overall survival is not affected by the type of surgical treatment. Local recurrence can be a late event and a long-term follow-up is recommended.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	High frequency of G/C transversion on p53 gene in breast cancers.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer: Why is the incidence increasing?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The inflammatory breast cancer registry: Preliminary findings from 50 patients.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Increased incidence of lobular breast carcinoma in women with a family history with parathyroid adenoma.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Characterization of a molecular genetic profile for lobular neoplasia.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HER2 status population screening of breast carcinoma in Poland: Immunohistochemical evaluation of 5946 cases.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Micrometastases in sentinel lymph nodes of patients with ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast have no clinical relevance.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Inhibition of cathepsin B activity in human breast cancer tissue by cysteine peptidase inhibitor isolated from human placenta: Immunohistochemical and biochemical studies.	Cysteine peptidases and their endogenous inhibitors (CPI) have been shown to be involved in tumor progression and metastasis. Since their activity has been found to be changed in tumor tissue and/or body fluids of cancer patients, the determination of the peptidase/inhibitor levels is considered as a procedure of diagnostic value. Determination of cathepsin B, its precursor and inhibitor activity in homogenates of tumors and control breast tissue samples of patients with invasive ductal and lobular breast carcinoma and with benign breast disease (BBD) was performed using fluorometric assay. Immunohistochemical staining of the breast tissue samples was carried out using polyclonal antibody against cysteine peptidase inhibitor isolated from human placenta. Procathepsin B and cathepsin B were found to be significantly increased and their endogenous inhibitors decreased in homogenates of tumors from patients with breast cancer. A correlation between procathepsin B or cathepsin B activities as well as cysteine peptidase inhibitor activity and the histopathological grading of the tumor was observed. All samples of the tumor tissue showed positive immunostaining with antibody raised against cysteine peptidase inhibitor, while in the control tissue samples the immunostaining was much weaker. Significant difference observed between the activities of cathepsin B and/or its precursor in malignant and benign tumors might serve as a useful clinical indicator in discrimination between benign and invasive tumors.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of biological markers as predictors of response to preoperative chemotherapy in large primary breast cancer.	The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate biological markers, their correlation with response and outcome, and the change in these markers under the influence of preoperative chemotherapy (PCT) in patients with a large primary breast cancer. One hundred and thirty-five women were treated with PCT, followed by locoregional therapy and adjuvant treatment. Estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR), HER-2, p53, and cathepsin D were determined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) before and after PCT. The overall response (OR) was 70% and the pathologic complete response (pCR) was 13%. Forty-four percent of the patients could be offered breast-conserving surgery (BCS). At a median follow-up of 50 mo the overall survival is 82% and the disease-free survival is 70%. No local recurrence (LR) has developed following BCS. Invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) was more frequently ER-negative and HER-2-positive than invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC). P53-negative and ER-negative patients seemed to be more chemosensitive compared to p53-positive patients (74% vs 53%) and ER-positive patients (75% vs 65%). but this difference did not reach statistical significance. A trend toward higher complete pathologic remission rate was seen for ER-negative patients (p = 0.0609). PgR, HER-2, and cathepsin D were not related to response. The pattern of biological markers did not change with PCT. making repeated determination useless.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma: To grade or not to grade.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	KI-67 and cyclin-D1 immunostaining aids in stratifying atypical ductal hyperplasia diagnosed on breast core biopsy.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	E-cadherin reliably distinguishes lobular and ductal carcinoma.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of estrogen receptor subunits (alpha & beta) and progesterone receptor subunits (alpha & beta) in breast cancer.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pathological and clinical predictors for response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy in breast cancer.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Ductal versus lobular breast carcinoma: The influence of histologic subtype on ultrasound measurement.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pleomorphic lobular carcinoma in-situ versus intermediate grade ductal carcinoma in-situ: A comparative analysis of loss of heterozygosity at BRCA1/17q/21.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic findings in core biopsy and resection specimens of central and peripheral papillomas of the breast.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MYEOV: A candidate gene for DNA amplification events occurring centromeric to CCND1 in breast cancer.	Rearrangements of chromosome 11q13 are frequently observed in human cancer. The 11q13 region harbors several chromosomal breakpoint clusters found in hematologic malignancies and exhibits frequent DNA amplification in carcinomas. DNA amplification patterns in breast tumors are consistent with the existence of at least 4 individual amplification units, suggesting the activation of more than 1 gene in this region. Two candidate oncogenes have been identified, CCND1 and EMS1/CORTACTIN, representing centrally localized amplification units. Genes involved in the proximal and distal amplicons remain to be identified. Recently we reported on a putative transforming gene, MYEOV, mapping 360 kb centromeric to CCND1. This gene was found to be rearranged and activated concomitantly with CCND1 in a subset of t(11;14)(q13;q32)-positive multiple myeloma (MM) cell lines. To evaluate the role of the MYEOV gene in the proximal amplification core, we tested 946 breast tumors for copy number increase of MYEOV relative to neighboring genes or markers. RNA expression levels were studied in a subset of 72 tumors for which both RNA and DNA were available. Data presented here show that the MYEOV gene is amplified in 9.5% (90/946) and abnormally expressed in 16.6% (12/72) of breast tumors. Amplification patterns showed that MYEOV was most frequently coamplified with CCND1 (74/90), although independent amplification of MYEOV could also be detected (16/90). Abnormal expression levels correlated only partially with DNA amplification. MYEOV DNA amplification correlated with estrogen and progesterone receptor-positive cancer, invasive lobular carcinoma type and axillary nodal involvement. In contrast to CCND1 amplification, no association with disease outcome could be found. Our data suggest that MYEOV is a candidate oncogene activated in the amplification core located proximal to CCND1.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Relation of regimens of combined hormone replacement therapy to lobular, ductal, and other histologic types of breast carcinoma.	BACKGROUND. The incidence of invasive lobular carcinoma has been increasing among postmenopausal women in some parts of the United States. Part of this may be due to changes in classification over time. However, the use of combined (estrogen and progestin) hormone replacement therapy (CHRT) also has increased during the last decade and may account in part for the increase in invasive lobular breast carcinoma. METHODS. A large, multicenter case-control study of Caucasian and African-American women who were diagnosed at age < 65 years with their first invasive breast tumor from July 1, 1994 through April 30, 1998 was conducted. In-person interviews were conducted with 1749 postmenopausal patients, and their responses were compared with the responses of 1953 postmenopausal control women identified through random-digit dialing who met the study criteria of being postmenopausal at the time of diagnosis. Polytomous logistic regression was used to calculate the odds ratio (OR) as an estimate of the relative risk and to compute the 95% confidence interval (95%CI) associated with the use of various regimens of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) among women diagnosed with ductal breast carcinoma, lobular (or mixed lobular and ductal) breast carcinoma, and a grouping of other histologic types of breast carcinoma. RESULTS. Ever use of unopposed estrogen therapy (ERT) was not associated with an increase in the risk of any histologic type of breast carcinoma. The risk of invasive lobular breast carcinoma and the risk of breast carcinoma of the grouping of other histologies increased among women currently using CHRT (OR, 2.2; 95%CI, 1.4-3.3; and OR, 1.9; 95%CI, 1.0-3.4, respectively). The risk increase was greater for the mixed lobular-ductal type than for the pure lobular type of breast carcinoma, although the difference was not statistically significant. There was some indication that gtoreq 5 years of continuous CHRT (gtoreq 25 days per month of progestin) was associated with a higher risk of lobular breast carcinoma (OR, 2.5; 95%CI, 1.4-4.3) compared with sequential CHRT (< 25 days per month of progestin; OR, 1.5; 95%CI, 0.8-2.6). Current use of continuous CHRT was only moderately associated with risk of ductal breast carcinoma. CONCLUSIONS. Postmenopausal women who take CHRT appear to be at an increased risk of lobular breast carcinoma. Data from this study suggest that neither ERT use nor CHRT substantially increase the risk of ductal breast carcinoma among women age < 65 years.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Does lobular carcinoma in situ increase the risk of recurrence in patients with invasive lobular carcinoma?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression analysis of lobular and ductal carcinomas of the breast.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Infiltrating ductal and lobular breast carcinomas are characterised by different interrelationships among markers related to angiogenesis and hormone dependence.	To obtain a more integrated understanding of the different breast cancer phenotypes and to investigate whether bio-molecular profiles can distinguish between specific histotypes, we explored the interrelations among several biologic variables indicative of, or related to, hormone dependence, proliferation and apoptosis control, and angiogenesis in ductal and lobular carcinomas, the most common histotypes. Oestrogen and progesterone receptors, tumour proliferative activity, the expression of cyclin A, p16ink4A, p27kip1, p21waf1, p53, bcl-2, and levels of vascular endothelial growth factor and hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) were evaluated in 190 in ductal and 67 lobular carcinomas. Our findings support the hypothesis that in ductal and lobular carcinomas are two distinct, partially phenotypically unrelated entities, the latter being characterised by the presence of features indicative of differentiation such as oestrogen receptors, low proliferation and lack of p53 expression and associated with low vascular endothelial growth factor content compared to angiogenesis in ductal carcinomas. Conversely, no significant difference was found between lobular carcinomas and in ductal carcinomas considering the frequency distribution of PgR-positive cases, cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors acting at the G1/S boundary, bcl-2 and HIF-1alpha protein expression. Although both generally defined as hormone responsive, in ductal and lobular carcinomas are also characterised by biologic patterns in which proteins related to hormone responsiveness, cell-cycle control, apoptosis and angiogenesis were differently associated. This finding suggests the need to refine breast cancer characterisation in order to provide detailed information about individual tumours, or subsets of tumours, that will help in defining optimal treatment approaches.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Considerations in breast imaging diagnosis.	Certain points regarding breast imaging diagnosis are open to interpretation and are considered difficult to understand in the short course on mammography. For example, focal asymmetric density (FAD) may or may not include mass lesions. To assess whether FAD includes mass lesions or not, a comparison of density with equal gland volume, margins, and internal structure is important. Calcifications must be read carefully according to shape and distribution. The shapes of calcifications can be used to estimate the intra-ductal structure of breast cancer, but small round calcifications and amorphous calcifications can be interpreted as both benign and malignant lesions. Therefore, distribution brings important information to the assessment. Architectural distortion can be caused by fibrosis in both benign and malignant lesions. Lobular carcinoma and scirrhous carcinoma are the most common malignant diseases, but radial scar, inflammatory disease, and surgical scar need to be considered in the differential diagnosis. Finally, the pathological assessment of breast cancer and mammographic technology are basic, important factors in reading mammography.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma in a hypoplastic breast.	Breast hypoplasia is encountered as part of genetic syndromes or as a result of iatrogenic factors. The incidence of this malformation and the occurrence of breast carcinoma in such cases are unknown. The authors present a 66-year-old patient with a severe breast hypoplasia and invasive lobular carcinoma. The advanced clinical stage required neoadjuvant chemotherapy. After 5 CMF cycles with no significant effect, a modified radical mastectomy with axillary lymph node dissection was performed. The pathological report revealed an infiltrating lobular carcinoma with combined classical and alveolar growth and with minor morphological changes after the chemotherapy. Immunostaining for cell proliferation markers, apoptotic regulators, and cell adhesion molecules, such as the CD44 family and members of the cadherin-catenin group, was performed. The tumor expressed a high bcl-2/low bax ratio and lacked p53 immunoreactivity, which could explain the resistance to neoajuvant therapy. The lack of adhesion molecules, except for strong E-cadherin and beta-catenin reactivity, and weak CD44v6 expression were demonstrated. To the authors' knowledge this is the first case of an invasive lobular carcinoma in a hypoplastic breast reported in the English literature.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Few FH mutations in sporadic counterparts of tumor types observed in hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer families	Loss of function mutations in the Fumarate hydratase (fumarase, FH) gene were recently identified as the cause for dominantly inherited uterine and cutaneous leiomyomas and renal cell cancer. To further evaluate the role of FH in tumorigenesis, we screened FH mutations from tumor types seen in hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell cancer mutation carriers-41 uterine and 10 cutaneous leiomyomas, 52 renal cell carcinomas, 53 sarcomas, 29 prostate carcinomas, and 15 lobular breast carcinomas. Few mutations were detected. Biallelic inactivation of FH was found in one uterine leiomyosarcoma, one cutaneous leiomyoma, and one soft tissue sarcoma. Whereas the two former lesions were shown to originate from a germ-line mutation, the soft tissue sarcoma is to our knowledge the first example of purely somatic inactivation of FH in tumors.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Interobserver interpretative reproducibility of GOLDFISH, a first generation gold-facilitated autometallographic bright field in situ hybridization assay for HER-2/neu amplification in invasive mammary carcinoma	Clinical laboratory testing for HER-2/neu gene amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization is not widely used in diagnostic pathology laboratories. A bright field alternative permitting direct visualization of gene amplification using conventional microscopy may be more readily incorporated into routine diagnostic pathology practice. Interobserver reproducibility represents an important component of the validation of such an assay. We tested the hypothesis that a first-generation bright field alternative to fluorescence in situ hybridization, a Nanogold (Nanoprobes, Inc, Yaphank, NY, USA) (or gold-label)/autometallographic assay for HER-2/neu gene amplification in breast carcinoma, can be reproducibly interpreted by pathologists. Reference standard was direct fluorescence in situ hybridization supplemented by RNA/RNA in situ hybridization. Reproducibility of selected conventional histologic parameters was captured based on a hematoxylin and eosin slide accompanying the GOLDFISH preparation (gold-facilitated autometallographic in situ hybridization) as an indication of comparative reproducibility. The average kappa among GOLDFISH observers was 0.84, which was at least or concordant of observers scoring nuclear grade (kappa=0.50) and the presence of in situ carcinoma (kappa=0.57) by conventional histopathology. The GOLDFISH assay was specifically designed for qualitative interpretation, thus obviating the need for oil immersion microscopy and signal enumeration, and its interpretation was highly reproducible among five pathologists.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Fine-needle aspiration cytology of lobular carcinoma in situ	Fine-needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) plays a key role in the preoperative diagnosis of breast carcinoma but is less reliable in the diagnosis of in situ lesions. The objective of the present study was to investigate the cytological features of lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS), regarding which little data is available to date. Cytological features of FNAC of the breast from 21 patients with histology-proven LCIS were described and compared with surgical specimens. Aspirates from 8/21 cases had cell groups diagnostic for or compatible with LCIS. Aspirates from an additional two cases demonstrated hypercellular, dissociated, and more pleomorphic tumor cells, which were originally diagnosed as invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC). The remaining 11 aspirates were diagnosed as benign or nondiagnostic. FNAC from the eight diagnostic specimens were characterized by loosely cohesive cell groups composed of uniform cells with occasional intracytoplasmic lumina, slightly irregular and eccentric nuclei. We conclude that the main difficulty in diagnosing LCIS by FNAC is sampling rather than recognition of the lesions. However, one should be aware of the cytological features of LCIS in order to reach a correct diagnosis. There are no reliable cytological criteria that help in differentiating pleomorphic and dissociated LCIS from ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic accuracy of stereotactic large-core needle biopsy for nonpalpable breast disease: Results of a multicenter prospective study with 95% surgical confirmation	Stereotactic large-core needle biopsy is increasingly applied for the diagnosis of nonpalpable breast disease. Our study examines whether this minimally invasive technique is sufficiently accurate to replace surgical breast biopsy. In a prospective multicenter study, 973 consecutive women with 1,029 nonpalpable breast lesions were offered stereotactic 14-gauge needle biopsy. If the needle biopsy yielded breast cancer, the patient was offered therapeutic surgery. Surgical biopsy was proposed in cases of needle biopsies without malignancy. An expert panel reviewed all discrepancies in histologic diagnosis between the needle biopsy and open biopsy. Forty-five patients withdrew from participation and 113 (11%) planned needle biopsy procedures were cancelled. Of the 871 successful biopsy procedures, 95% were confirmed surgically. In 13 cases (1.5%), insufficient material was obtained for histologic assessment. Fifty-five percent of the needle biopsies were diagnosed as malignant (290 invasive cancers, 190 ductal carcinoma in situ). Thirteen of the 322 lesions (4%, 95% CI 2-7%) with a benign needle biopsy diagnosis contained malignancy after surgery. Six of the 26 (23%, 95% CI 9-44%) lesions with a high-risk diagnosis (atypical ductal or lobular hyperplasia or lobular carcinoma in situ) were diagnosed as malignant after surgery. Five of the 30 lesions containing normal breast tissue held malignancy (17%, 95% CI 6-35%). Guidelines for the management of different categories of needle biopsy diagnoses were made. Application of these guidelines to the present findings resulted in sensitivity and specificity rates of 97% (95% CI 95-98%) and 99% (95% CI 97-100%), respectively. Stereotactic large-core needle biopsy is an accurate diagnostic instrument for nonpalpable breast disease. It may safely replace needle localised open-breast biopsy provided that high-risk and normal breast tissue diagnoses are followed by needle or open-breast biopsy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Method of detection and histology of breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Coregulators and estrogen receptor function in the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Correlation of snail expression with histological grade and lymph node status in breast carcinomas	Snail is a zinc finger transcription factor that triggers the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) by directly repressing E-cadherin expression. Snail is required for mesoderm and neural crest formation during embryonic development and has recently been implicated in the EMT associated with tumour progression. In a series of human breast carcinomas, we have analysed the expression of Snail and that of molecules of the E-cadherin/catenin complexes. We have also correlated these data with the pathological features of the tumours. We show that Snail expression inversely correlates with the grade of differentiation of the tumours and that it is expressed in all the infiltrating ductal carcinomas (IDC) presenting lymph node metastases that were analysed. In addition, Snail is expressed in some dedifferentiated tumours with a negative nodal status. Considering that Snail is involved in the induction of the invasive and migratory phenotype in epithelial cells, these results indicate that it is also involved in the progression of breast ductal tumours, where it could additionally serve as a marker of the metastatic potential.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Uptake and washout of 99mTcV-dimercaptosuccinic acid and 99mTc-sestamibi in the assessment of histological type and grade in breast cancer	This study was performed to investigate the relationship between histological type and grade, with the uptake and washout of 99mTc-hexakis-2-methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-sestamibi, 99mTc-MIBI) and 99mTcV-dimercaptosuccinic acid (99mTcV-DMSA) in breast cancer. Forty-five patients with histologically proven breast cancer had previously been referred for 99mTcV-DMSA and/or 99mTc-MIBI scintimammography. Twenty-five of them underwent both 99mTcV-DMSA and 99mTc-MIBI scintigraphy in a double phase study. Lateral prone and anterior supine images were acquired at 15 and 60 min after administration of 740-925 MBq of each radiotracer. Uptake ratios and retention index were calculated and correlated with histology and grade of malignancy. Histology showed eight different histotypes: 77.7% were infiltrating ductal or lobular carcinomas. Mammography was definitely positive in 32/45, indeterminate in 10 and negative in three cases (sensitivity 71%). 99mTcV-DMSA was true positive in 37/40 (sensitivity 92.5%) and 99mTc-MIBI in 28/30 (sensitivity 93.3%) breast cancers. Uptake ratios were significantly higher in ductal than in lobular carcinomas on 99mTcV-DMSA and 99mTc-MIBI scintigrams at early and delayed phases. Grade II carcinomas had significantly lower values of retention index (rapid washout) than grade III carcinomas. This finding was statistically significant only on 99mTc-MIBI scans and was observed in ductal and lobular carcinomas. The retention index did not show any significant difference between ductal and lobular carcinomas. Uptake ratios were also not statistically different between grade II and III cancers. It is concluded that 99mTc-MIBI and 99mTcV-DMSA uptake in breast cancer is probably related to histological type and may distinguish ductal from lobular carcinomas. To a certain degree, the washout rate may reflect the histological grade, but since grade is not the only factor influencing this phenomenon it should be explored further in conjunction with other parameters by multivariate analysis in order to clarify eventual indirect correlations.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Fibroblast growth factor 8 is expressed at higher levels in lactating human breast and in breast cancer	Fibroblast growth factor 8 can transform NIH3T3 cells and its expression has been found to be associated with breast and prostate cancer. Following our finding that fibroblast growth factor 8 mRNA expression is increased in breast cancer, we have undertaken an immunohistochemistry study of fibroblast growth factor 8 expression in a series of human breast tissues and other normal tissues. Our findings confirm increased expression of fibroblast growth factor 8 in malignant breast tissue but also show significant fibroblast growth factor 8 expression in non-malignant breast epithelial cells. No significant difference in fibroblast growth factor 8 expression was found between different grades of ductal carcinoma, lobular carcinoma and ductal carcinoma in-situ or cancer of different oestrogen receptor, progesterone receptor or nodal status. The highest levels of fibroblast growth factor 8 expression were found in lactating breast tissues and fibroblast growth factor 8 was also detected in human milk. A survey of other normal tissues showed that fibroblast growth factor 8 is expressed in the proliferative cells of the dermis and epithelial cells in colon, ovary fallopian tube and uterus. Fibroblast growth factor 8 appears to be expressed in several organs in man and appears to have an importance in lactation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	An evaluation of the prognostic significance of vascular endothelial growth factor in node positive primary breast carcinoma	Angiogenesis is intimately related to the growth and progression of tumours and must be induced to facilitate growth beyond a minimum size. It has been implicated in the development of metastases and survival in breast carcinoma. VEGF is a cytokine that plays an important role in angiogenesis. Its expression is increased in solid tumours during induction of angiogenesis and it has been implicated as a prognostic marker in patients with node negative breast carcinoma. We studied VEGF expression, in a series of patients with node positive breast carcinoma and examined histopathological parameters of the tumour and the prognostic value of VEGF expression. Specimens from 108 cases of node positive breast cancer were stained for VEGF using an antibody suitable for use on formalin fixed tissue. VEGF staining was cytoplasmic and was scored by intensity and the percent positive cells. Patients with positive VEGF staining (n=48) were compared with patients with negative VEGF staining (n=60). Demographic criteria were similar in both groups. Only one (12%) patient with lobular carcinoma and one (14%) patient with medullary carcinoma expressed VEGF compared with 46 (49%) patients with ductal carcinoma (NOS). DCIS was present in 60 tumours. There was a strong correlation between staining in DCIS and the adjacent invasive tumours. There was no significant association between VEGF staining and T stage, tumour size or the number of positive lymph nodes. VEGF expression had no prognostic significance either for disease-free or overall survival in patients with node positive disease. This study failed to support a role for VEGF as a prognostic marker in patients with node positive breast carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Morphologic spectrum of estrogen receptor-negative breast carcinoma	Context: Estrogen receptor (ER)-negative breast carcinomas are a heterogeneous group of breast cancers that are generally thought to be aggressive. Objective: To determine the morphologic and immunohistochemical spectrum of a consecutive series of ER-negative breast carcinomas, in an attempt to understand the pathogenesis and behavior of these lesions. Design: Seventy-four consecutive cases of ER-negative invasive carcinomas were studied. Hematoxylin-eosin-stained sections were reviewed, and new sections were stained for c-erbB-2, p53, vimentin, and androgen and prolactin receptors. The findings were correlated with the axillary lymph node status as a measure of tumor aggressiveness. Setting: The histopathology department of a tertiary referral teaching hospital. Results: The tumors included 50 (68%) invasive ductal carcinomas, 21 (28%) medullary/atypical medullary carcinomas, and 1 each of invasive lobular, apocrine, and papillary carcinoma. Some of the invasive ductal cases had distinctive features that are described in this report. Maximum tumor diameter varied between 5 and 100 mm. Sixty tumors (81%) were grade 3, 13 (18%) were grade 2, and 1 (1%) was grade 1. Of the 60 cases in which the axillary node status was known, 34 (57%) had metastases, and 26 did not. Tumors associated with positive nodes were significantly larger than those associated with negative nodes (37.2 vs 17.8 mm, P<.001). A higher percentage of node-negative tumors were c-erbB-2 positive (42% vs 21%, P<.05). There were no differences between the 2 groups with regard to histologic type, tumor grade, or the expression of p53, vimentin, or androgen or prolactin receptors. Conclusions: Many ER-negative breast carcinomas have distinctive microscopic features. Not all ER-negative tumors are aggressive, as judged by the absence of lymph node metastases in 43% of cases in this series. Tumor size is the most important indicator for the likelihood of the presence of lymph node metastases. The wide range of tumor sizes encountered in this series suggests that the ER status of a tumor is determined early in its natural history and supports the existence of 2 separate pathways for the development of ER-negative and ER-positive breast carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immediate breast reconstruction: A six years experience in a DGH		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Association between HER2 status and histological diagnosis of breast cancer: Analysis of the multinational HER2000 study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	First clinical experience with a computer aided diagnosis system for the assessment of breast lesions in contrast-enhanced MRI		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Promoter hypermethylation and post-transcriptional mechanisms for reduced BRCA1 immunoreactivity in sporadic human breast cancers	Background: Germline mutation of BRCA1 is well known to cause familial breast cancer. Although somatic mutations of the BRCA1 gene are rare in sporadic breast cancers, a high incidence of reduced BRCA1 immunoreactivity has been demonstrated. As one of the mechanisms for this, gene silencing by hypermethylation of the BRCA1 promoter region has been reported. Here, we show the presence of a post-transcriptional mechanism by examining promoter hypermethylation, mRNA expression levels and immunoreactivity of BRCA1 in sporadic human breast cancers. Methods: Paired samples of 20 invasive ductal carcinomas and one invasive lobular carcinoma were obtained from sporadic breast cancer cases. The BRCA1 protein expression levels were determined by immunohistochemistry using a well-characterized antibody. The methylation status of the BRCA1 promoter region was determined by sequencing after bisulfite modification. The mRNA expression levels were determined by semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Mutations in the entire BRCA1 coding region were analyzed by PCR single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis. Results: Reduced immunoreactivity was observed in 13 of the 21 cancers. Hypermethylation was observed in five of the 13 cancers with reduced immunoreactivity and mRNA expression was almost absent in these five cancers. In the remaining eight cancers, mRNA expression was not decreased. None of the 21 cancers examined harbored BRCA1 mutations. Conclusion: These findings showed that post-transcriptional mechanisms, such as low efficiency of translation or reduced stability of BRCA1 protein, are also involved in reduced BRCA1 immunoreactivity in sporadic breast cancers.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression and amplification of cyclin D1 in primary breast carcinomas: Relationship with histopathological types and clinico-pathological parameters	Overexpression and amplification of cyclin D1 were investigated by immunohistochemistry and differential polymerase chain reaction (dPCR) in 440 formalin-fixed primary breast carcinoma tissues. Overexpression of cyclin D1 was detected in 60% (263/440) and amplification of cyclin D1 was noted in 27% (119/440) of the primary breast carcinomas. Molecular analysis demonstrated that cyclin D1 was amplified in 30% (7/23) of the comedo DCIS, 22% (9/41) of the comedo DCIS and 32% (13/41) of the adjacent invasive ductal carcinomas, 30% (82/270) of the invasive ductal carcinomas, 27% (9/33) of the invasive lobular carcinomas, 19% (4/21) of the colloid carcinomas and 13% (2/15) of the medullary carcinomas. Cyclin D1 was amplified in 11% (2/19) of the invasive ductal carcinomas but not in the adjacent non-comedo DCIS lesions. Our observation showed that cyclin D1 was strongly positive in 61% (14/23) of the comedo subtype, 61% (11/18) of the non-comedo subtype, 59% (24/41) of the comedo DCIS and 63% (26/41) of the adjacent invasive ductal carcinomas, 53% (10/19) of the non-comedo DCIS and 58% (11/19) of the adjacent invasive lesions, 58% (157/270) of the invasive ductal carcinomas, 73% (24/33) of the invasive lobular carcinomas, 52% (11/21) of the colloid carcinomas and 27% (4/15) of the medullary carcinomas. A significant association was observed between in situ components and adjacent invasive lesions for cyclin D1 expression (p<0.05) and amplification (p<0.05). A significant relationship was noted between amplification of cyclin D1 and lymph node metastases (p<0.05) but not with histological grade (p>0.05), estrogen receptor status (p>0.05) and proliferation index (Ki-67 and PCNA) (p>0.05). However, overexpression of cyclin D1 was statistically associated with well differentiated tumors (p<0.05) and estrogen receptor positivity (p<0.05). No relationship was seen with nodal status (p>0.05) and proliferation index (Ki-67 and PCNA) (p>0.05). These observations suggest that tumors positive for cyclin D1 protein may have features of good prognosis but amplification of cyclin D1 gene could be an indicator of tumors with poor prognostic features. Although majority of the Malaysian patients belong to younger age group (<50 years old), amplification and expression of cyclin D1 was not statistically associated with patient age (p>0.05). These observations indicate that amplification and up-regulation of cyclin D1 may be independent of patient age. Moreover, overexpression and amplification of cyclin D1 in preinvasive, preinvasive and adjacent invasive lesions, and invasive carcinomas suggest that the gene may play an important role in early and late stages of breast carcinogenesis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Analysis of E-cadherin in lobular carcinoma in situ		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinical assessment of HER-2/neu since the FDA approval in 1998: Who receives it?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A first look at gene expression profiles of invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast using high-density cDNA microarrays and comparison to infiltrating ductal carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Preoperative chemotherapy increases the expression of MRP1, LRP and P-gp in breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Novel drug target genes in breast cancer discovered by combining microdissection and micro-array based expressing profiling		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Antigen levels of urokinase type plasminogen activator and its inhibitors in primary breast cancer	The aim of the study was to monitor urokinase plasminogen activator antigen concentrations and its type 1 (PAI-1) and type 2 (PAI-2) inhibitors in histologically defined forms of primary breast cancer and a comparison with these antigens levels in normal tissue. Another goal was a search for a relationship/or its lack/between the occurrence of the new generation markers of neoplastic disease and a presence/or absence/of lymph node metastases. U-PA, PAI-1 and PAI-2 antigen levels were determined by ELISA tests in protein extracts of breast cancer tissues. Among the studied breast tumors 32 specimens were ductal carcinomas, 15 specimens were lobular carcinomas and the remaining 13 were other rare histological forms. In comparison to the obtained values of u-PA antigen levels in normal tissue, the values in neoplastic tissues were elevated several times: 11-fold, 6-fold and 15-fold in ductal c., lobular c. and other rare neoplasms. The values of PAI-1 antigen levels were about 20-fold higher for all studied, histologically defined primary breast cancers. The greatest differences of PAI-2 antigen levels growth was observed in histologically defined primary breast cancer forms. It was augmented 10-fold, 40-fold and 20-fold, respectively, for ductal carcinoma, lobular carcinoma and rare forms of neoplasms. In various forms of invasive breast cancer and those without lymph node metastases the content of u-PA, PAI-1 and PAI-2 were also significantly elevated. Among the new generation of independent markers of the neoplastic process, PAI-2 seems to be the most reliable marker for the identification of primary breast cancer. The goal of the present study was to evaluate a possible combined prognostic value of the three major components of the u-PA system (u-PA, PAI-1 and PAI-2) in patients with defined histopathological forms of primary breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytological features of lobular carcinomas of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Is radical surgery needed for DCIS and pre-malignant lesions?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Male breast cancer in Latvia		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	IL-12 activated immunity in the prevention of mammary carcinogenesis in Her-2/neu transgenic mice.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Endoglin is only expressed in a proportion of invasive breast cancers and is disproportionately expressed in ductal rather than lobular carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A long term follow-up study of ductal carcinoma in situ in papilloma (DCIS-PAP). Definition, prognostic significance and practical considerations		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A long-term follow-up study of survival of 562 patients with small invasive breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma in situ on core needle biopsy: When should one recommend excision?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	E-CADHERIN expression in the lobular component of Low Grade mammary carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Does size of cancer on large gauge core needle biopsy correlate with size of cancer on excision?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunocytochemical detection of E-cadherin is a useful adjunct in distinguishing ductal from lobular breast carcinoma in fixed cytologic preparations of fine needle aspirates		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Exfoliative breast cytopathology: An experience with ductal lavage		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast carcinoma in situ: Risk factors and screening patterns	Background: Risk factors associated with invasive breast cancer are well documented, but those associated with breast carcinoma in situ are not well defined. Methods: We conducted a population-based, case-control study among female residents of Connecticut to identify risk factors for breast carcinoma in situ. Case patients, diagnosed with ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) (n = 875) or lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) (n = 123), were matched by 5-year age groups with control subjects (n = 999). Case patients were diagnosed between September 15, 1994, through March 14, 1998, and all subjects were between the ages of 20 and 79 years. Information on risk factors and cancer-screening history was collected by telephone interviews. Conditional logistic regression was used to determine odds ratios (ORs) for the association of these factors with the risk of DCIS and LCIS. Results: Case patients with DCIS were more likely than control subjects to report a family history of breast cancer (OR = 1.48; 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.19 to 1.85) or previous breast biopsy (OR = 3.56; 95% CI = 2.86 to 4.43). They also had fewer full-term pregnancies (OR = 0.86; 95% CI = 0.80 to 0.93) and were older at first full-term pregnancy (OR for being 20-29 years old relative to being <20 years old = 1.68; 95% CI = 1.17 to 2.43) and at menopause (OR for being gtoreq55 years old relative to being <45 years old = 1.71; 95% CI = 1.05 to 2.77). DCIS case patients were more likely than control subjects to have had a mammographic examination (OR = 2.46; 95% CI = 1.78 to 3.40) or an annual clinical breast examination (OR = 1.83; 95% CI = 1.48 to 2.26). DCIS patients and control subjects did not differ with respect to oral contraceptive use, hormone replacement therapy, alcohol consumption or smoking history, or breast self-examination. Associations for LCIS were similar. Conclusions: The risk factors associated with DCIS and LCIS are similar to those associated with invasive breast cancer. Diagnosis of DCIS is associated with increased mammography screening.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Intraoperative axillary sentinel lymph node touch imprints lack sensitivity in detecting metastatic breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Analysis of potential risk factors for failed localisation of axillary sentinel nodes in breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Freehand core biopsy of palpable breast lesions: An accurate predictor of tumour grade?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Changes in expression of estrogen receptor beta in the transition from normal breast to breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular intraepithelial neoplasia: An examination of concurrent disease with grade and the implications for patient management		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	True positive somatostatin receptor scintigraphy in primary breast cancer correlates with expression of sst2A and sst5		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Collagenase-3 expression in breast myofibroblasts as a molecular marker of transition of ductal carcinoma in situ lesions to invasive ductal carcinomas	Collagenase-3 (matrix metalloproteinase 13; MMP-13), a protease originally identified in breast carcinoma, is characterized by a potent degrading activity against a wide spectrum of extracellular matrix proteins. The aims of this study were to localize and identify the MMP-13-expressing cells in invasive human breast carcinoma and to evaluate the role of MMP-13 in transition to invasive lesions by studying ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). We found expression of MMP-13 in stromal fibroblast-like cells in all 21 invasive ductal carcinomas studied and in 4 of 9 invasive lobular carcinomas. In most carcinomas, expression of MMP-13 was limited to small stromal foci in the tumor area. Combined in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry showed coexpression of alpha-smooth muscle actin immunoreactivity and MMP-13 mRNA in myofibroblasts. In contrast, cytokeratin-positive cancer cells, alpha-smooth muscle actin-positive vascular smooth muscle cells, CD68-positive macrophages, and CD31-positive endothelial cells were all MMP-13 mRNA negative. In situ hybridization for MMP-13 in 17 DCIS lesions revealed expression in 10 cases. Immunohistochemical analysis of all DCIS cases identified microinvasion in 8 of the 17 lesions. Seven of the eight lesions with microinvasion were MMP-13 positive. Further analysis showed that MMP-13 expression was often associated with the microinvasive events. This particular expression pattern was unique for MMP-13 among other MMPs analyzed, including MMP-2, -11, and -14. We conclude that MMP-13 is primarily expressed by myofibroblasts in human breast carcinoma and that expression in DCIS lesions often is associated with microinvasive events. On the basis of these data, we propose that MMP-13 may play an essential role during transition of DCIS lesions to invasive ductal carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma with cytoplasmic granules	We report on a case of invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast with a previously undescribed cytologic feature. Diff-Quik-stained cytologic preparations showed uniform single cells with prominent coarse cytoplasmic granules. Ultrastructurally, the granules showed features suggestive of autophagosomes and/or degenerative mitochondria. The cytologic differential diagnosis included granulocytic sarcoma, metastatic melanoma, extramedullary hematopoiesis, large granulocytic leukemia/lymphoma, and mast-cell tumor. Adjunctive studies were helpful in the diagnosis of carcinoma. Histologic study of the mastectomy specimen showed classic type of invasive lobular carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Case 39: Invasive lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The pattern of expression of the microtubule-binding protein RHAMM/IHABP in mammary carcinoma suggests a role in the invasive behaviour of tumour cells	Intracellular hyaluronic acid binding protein (RHAMM/IHABP), which was recently identified as a novel member of the microtubule-associated protein (MAP) family, has the capacity to interact not only with microtubules but also with microfilaments. The molecule, which is known to be expressed in mammary carcinoma cells, might, through virtue of its intracellular interactions, influence tumour cell morphology and motility. This possibility was examined in a series of 189 mammary carcinomas by immunohistochemistry, using a polyclonal antibody to RHAMM/IHABP. Tumours were selected to include approximately equal numbers of consecutive grade I, II and III ductal carcinomas and invasive lobular carcinomas. Higher grade tumours had significantly lower expression of RHAMM/IHABP in the cytoplasm (p=0.02), but significantly increased expression in trabeculae (p=0.002) and further enhancement at the tumour island edges (p=0.002). Tumours of infiltrating lobular type had stronger expression in the overall cytoplasm (p=0.02) and trabeculae (p=0.08) than carcinomas of ductal type. The presence of strong trabecular expression was associated with a reduced overall survival time (p=0.017). These results suggest that RHAMM/IHABP expression may contribute to the motility and invasiveness of a tumour cell sub-population in breast cancers.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Atypical ductal hyperplasia in breast core needle biopsies: Correlation of size of the lesion, complete removal of the lesion, and the incidence of carcinoma in follow-up biopsies	We reviewed the results of all breast core needle biopsies with a diagnosis of atypical ductal hyperplasia (ADH) or atypia not otherwise specified and subsequent excisional biopsies for a 50-month period and correlated the results. Of 3,026 biopsies, 216 were diagnosed as ADH or atypia not otherwise specified, and subsequent resection was available for 105. After review, 95 qualified as ADH. Subsequent resection showed ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in 13 excisions, ADH in 31, lobular carcinoma in situ in 6, and benign proliferative lesions in the remaining 45. In none of the 8 biopsies in which DCIS was found and radiographs were available for review was the radiographic lesion entirely removed. For comparison, the incidence of carcinoma in resections done for a diagnosis of DCIS, low or intermediate grade (solid, cribriform, or micropapillary type), on core needle biopsy was significantly greater (8 of 10 cases). However, the size of the lesions diagnosed as carcinoma also was significantly greater than that of the lesions diagnosed as ADH, and in none of the 8 biopsies with DCIS at excision was the lesion entirely removed at the time of biopsy. The incidence of carcinoma in excisional biopsies done for a diagnosis of ADH in core needle biopsies in our institution is relatively low, while the incidence of ADH is relatively high. Possible reasons for this include total removal of small lesions at the time of biopsy and use of the diagnostic term ADH for lesions that are not associated with coexistent DCIS.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Single recurrent rearrangement with breakpoint at 8q21 in two gynecological tumors		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Profile of female breast lesions in Saudi Arabia	Objective: To evaluate the outline and pattern of male and female breast diseases in Saudi Arabia. Methods: The study consisted of 953 consective female breast biopsies and mastectomies. Information on these cases were retrieved from the records of the laboratory. Outline of breast lesions were tabulated and classified into inflammatory, benign and malignant lesions. Results: Benign lesions comprised 55.24% of all lesions (mean age 31.7), most commonly reported being fibroadenoma 46.9%, fibrocystic disease 23.25% and fibroadenosis 14.5%. Malignant lesion comprised 31.5% of all lesions (mean age 49.19), most commonly reported being ductal carcinoma 80% and lobular carcinoma 5.5%. Inflamatory lesions comprised of 10.1% of all lesions (mean age 29.56), most commonly reported lesion being chronic mastitis 30% and ducectasia 17.6%. Conclusion: The rates for female breast diseases varied in different studies but benign fibroadenoma was the most common breast lesion followed by ductal carcinoma. The mean age for malignant lesions in seven different studies was 44.18 years.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Asymmetric densities of the breast: Strategies for imaging evaluation		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The BRCA1 syndrome and other inherited breast or breast-ovarian cancers in a Norwegian prospective series	Inherited breast cancer is a heterogenous group of diseases. We examined this heterogeneity in a prospective series of inherited breast and ovarian cancers, previously demonstrated to include 84% of inherited cancers. Ninety-two tumours (65 breast and 27 ovarian) in 82 patients from 70 kindreds were prospectively diagnosed. Fifteen of the breast cancers were in situ, 50 were infiltrating. 40 (49%) of the 82 women carried a BRCA1 mutation, whereas no mutation in BRCA2 was found. Approximately, two-thirds of the BRCA1 mutation carriers had one of the four most frequent Norwegian founder mutations. Ninety-five per cent of the epithelial ovarian cancers occurred in BRCA1 mutation carrying women versus 38% of infiltrating breast cancers and 7% of carcinoma in situ of the breast. The BRCA1 syndrome was phenotypically distinct with invasive, high grade, oestrogen receptor-negative breast cancers and epithelial ovarian cancers. Non-BRCA1/2 inherited breast cancers included carcinoma in situ and lobular carcinoma and were frequently bilateral. Non-BRCA1/2 inherited breast cancer is not associated with epithelial ovarian cancer and in breast cancers has distinct biological characteristics, indicating that the different subgroups of inherited breast cancer may need different healthcare services.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	E-cadherin reactivity of 95 noninvasive ductal and lobular lesions of the breast: Implications for the interpretation of problematic lesions	Studies suggest that E-cadherin is useful to classify epithelial breast lesions as ductal or lobular, but extensive experience with this antibody is lacking. We studied reactivity of lesions with classic and indeterminate morphologic features. We reviewed 95 lesions and divided them into unanimous and nonunanimous diagnosis groups; the unanimous group served as benchmark lesions to which E-cadherin reactivity could be standardized and compared. All 37 ductal lesions in the unanimous group had strong, diffuse E-cadherin reactivity. Two of 22 classic lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) lesions had sparse E-cadherin-reactive lobular cells within a few terminal duct lobular units. Neither displayed transition from nonreactive to reactive cells. Of 36 lesions in the nonunanimous group, 19 had insufficient morphologic features for definitive classification. Only 6 of 19 were E-cadherin reactive, including several minimally proliferative lesions. The other 17 lesions in the nonunanimous group had LCIS and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) features. All had no E-cadherin, or strong membrane reactivity of constituent cells in varying proportions, without a transition between reactive and nonreactive cells. Results suggest that the majority of morphologically nondiagnostic atypical lesions are lobular, including those associated with DCIS. E-cadherin seems to be absent in most lobular lesions.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma of the male breast: Do we need to think of Klinefelter's syndrome?	Cancer of the male breast is generally seen in men over 60 years of age and, as in women, the commonest histological type is invasive ductal carcinoma. Invasive lobular cancers are seen very rarely because of the absence of lobules in the male breast. Genetic abnormalities such as Klinefelter's syndrome can increase the risk of breast cancer, and it is thought that there has to be some cytoarchitectural abnormality for development of lobular cancers in men.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Loss of chromosome 16q in lobular carcinoma in situ	Lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) and infiltrating lobular carcinoma may represent different forms of the same disease based on their frequent clinical association and similar histologic features. Patients with LCIS are at increased risk of multicentric and bilateral disease. Thus, LCIS may represent both a precursor to infiltrating lobular carcinoma and a marker of risk for breast cancer. To identify genomic alterations in LCIS, comparative genomic hybridization was performed on 17 cases without concurrent invasive carcinoma. Loss involving chromosome 16q was present in 88% of cases and was the sole detected alteration in 29%. Gain involving 1q was second in frequency, occurring in 41% of tumors, and in all cases was associated with loss of 16q. Other recurrent changes were loss involving 17p (18%), 8p (12%), and 12q24 (12%). E-cadherin immunohistochemistry was performed on all LCIS cases to evaluate the correlation of loss involving 16q22, the site of the E-cadherin gene, and altered protein expression. Most cases with 16q22 loss showed altered E-cadherin expression (12 of 13). These results in LCIS are similar to changes reported in infiltrating lobular cancer, confirming a genetic relationship between them.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Adjuvant Paclitaxel and radiation therapy for patients with intact breast-feasibility of concurrent treatment		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Mixed apocrine/endocrine ductal carcinoma in situ of the breast coexistent with lobular carcinoma in situ	An unusual mixed form of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) of the breast is described, which exhibits a biphenotypic morphology encompassing a range of differential diagnostic DCIS subtypes. In adddition, immunophenotypic and ultrastructural studies demonstrate neuroendocrine and apocrine differentiation, raising questions regarding appropriate classification and biological behaviour. In two cases, coexistence of this mixed form of DCIS with lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) in the same duct lobular units is an additional unusual feature that might, at least in some cases, indicate a closer relation between them.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The importance of distinguishing lobular carcinoma from ductal carcinoma on breast biopsy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Decreased accuracy of sentinel node touch imprints in lobular carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HER2/neu overexpression does not predict axillary lymph node metastases in invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histologic analysis of multiple papillomas of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Keratin immunohistochemistry detects clinically significant metastases in bone marrow biopsy specimens in women with lobular breast carcinoma	Some patients with breast cancer currently undergo bone marrow biopsy to make clinical decisions regarding therapy; however, lobular carcinoma can be difficult to detect in routine histologic sections. The authors reviewed retrospectively all available bone marrow biopsies from patients with lobular carcinoma diagnosed between January, 1, 1989, and September, 25, 1997, at the City of Hope National Medical Center to identify useful morphologic features and to determine the utility of pan-keratin immunohistochemical (IHC) staining. A total of 65 biopsies from 54 patients were reviewed. Thirteen of the 65 biopsies were classified initially as containing metastatic tumor based on histologic features alone. With the addition of keratin IHC, seven additional cases of metastatic disease were detected. Forty of the 54 patients received stem cell replacement or autologous bone marrow transplantation. Disease-free survival after high-dose chemotherapy with stem cell replacement or autologous bone marrow transplantation was stratified into three groups based on hematoxylin and eosin (HalphampE) staining and IHC results. Two-year disease-free survival was 33% for the HalphampE-/IHC+ group versus 90% for the HalphampE-/IHC- group (p = 0.005) among patients clinically free of disease at the time of stem cell replacement or autologous bone marrow transplantation. Two-year disease-free survival was 0% in the HalphampE+/IHC+ group (p = 0.04, compared with the HalphampE-/IHC+ group). The authors conclude that routine morphologic examination without the aid of keratin IHC is unreliable in detecting clinically relevant metastatic lobular carcinoma in bone marrow biopsies. These findings suggest that pan-keratin immunostaining may be indicated on bone marrow biopsy specimens from lobular carcinoma patients if the biopsy appears histologically negative for metastatic tumor on HalphampE sections.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Role of p53 and bcl-2 in high-risk breast cancer patients treated with adjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy	Purpose: Adjuvant therapy has become an integral component of the management of primary high-risk breast cancer patients. However, a considerable fraction of women receive no benefit from this treatment. This study investigates whether a number of biopathological factors can influence the outcome of patients submitted to adjuvant chemotherapy involving the use of high-dose epirubicin and cyclophosphamide. Methods: One hundred and fifty-seven primary breast cancer patients, considered at high risk according to the St. Gallen Meeting Consensus Conference, were evaluated immunohistochemically for estrogen, progesterone receptors, p53, bcl-2, HER-2/neu, and Ki-67, of which the results were correlated with patient outcome. Results: Results obtained demonstrated that p53 is a significant predictor of disease-free survival (DFS P < 0.0001) and overall survival (OS P = 0.0002) both in ductal and lobular carcinomas, whereas bcl-2 expression seems to be of prognostic value only in lobular carcinomas (DFS P = 0.01; OS P = 0.02). Conclusions: This data indicates that in high-risk breast cancer patients the immunohistochemical evaluation of p53 and bcl-2 may be of clinical value in distinguishing different responses to adjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Elevated cytosol vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) showed a significant influence on outcome: Retrospective analysis of 173 patients with stage I and II breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cost analysis of stereotactic vacuum assisted core biopsy (SVAC) vs stereotactic large core excisional biopsy (site select) vs needle localization biopsy (NL) by pathologic outcome		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Ethnic differences in estrogen receptor (ER) negativity, tumor stage, grade and histology in a retrospective breast cancer review		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Positive margins following surgical excision of breast carcinoma: Analysis of pathologic correlates		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Possible effects of Chernobyl accident (1986) and war aggression on Croatia (1991-95) on thyroid and breast cancer epidemiology		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Orbital metastasis as the presenting sign of lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Differences in risk factors for local and distant recurrence after breast-conserving therapy or mastectomy for stage I and II breast cancer: Long-term analysis of the EORTC and DBCG trials		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Breast conserving surgery and radiotherapy in early stage breast cancer: Prognostic factors influencing local control		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Carcinoma in situ of the female breast. 10 Year follow-up results of a prospective nationwide study	In a Danish nationwide prospective study of in situ carcinoma of the breast, a total of 275 women, treated with excision alone, were registered from 1982 to 1989. The series included 142 cases of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), 100 cases of lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS), 26 cases of DCIS+LCIS, and seven cases of atypical hyperplasia (AH). Within a median follow-up of 120 months, a crude recurrence rate of 28% (76 cases) was found, of which 53% (40 cases) recurred as invasive carcinomas (IC) and 47% (36 cases) as CIS. CIS recurrences appeared after median 18 months, compared to median 42 months for IC recurrences. No statistical difference was found with respect to development of IC between the three groups of DCIS, DCIS+LCIS, and LCIS. The majority of recurrences were ipsilateral, also for LCIS. Forty four of 49 recurrences following DCIS, and seven of nine recurrences following DCIS+LCIS occurred as local recurrences. Histopathologically, in DCIS a strong association was found between large nuclear size and comedonecrosis. Univariate analysis showed a significant association to recurrence for nuclear size, comedonecrosis, and size of the original lesion. Multivariate analysis showed that only comedonecrosis and size of lesion were independent predictors of recurrence, however, specimen margins were not included in the analysis, as this parameter could not be adequately evaluated in the present series. Nuclear size of original DCIS lesion was related to histologic grade of the IC recurrence. The recurrence rate for DCIS of small nuclear size increased from 6% at five years of follow-up to 16% at 10 years, possibly due to a slower growth rate and a continued but delayed risk. Similarities were found between LCIS and DCIS of small nuclear size, both showing a continued risk and comparable rate of recurrence. Further, progression to IC of similar, highly differentiated type was seen, indicating a linkage between biological behavior of the two histological types.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Immunohistochemical versus molecular detection of RAK antigens in breast cancer	RAK antigens p120, p42, and p25 exhibit molecular and immunological similarity to the proteins encoded by HIV-1 and are expressed by 95% of breast and gynecological cancer cases in women and prostate cancer cases in men. Binding of the monoclonal antibody (MAb) RAK-BrI to cancer RAK antigens has been found to be inhibited by a peptide derived from the variable loop V3 of HIV-1. Since MAb RAK-BrI has been developed against denatured froms of breast cancer proteins, and it binds to a short epitope, GRAF, this MAb does not recognize the native, three-dimensional structure of proteins. Subsequently Western blot, after electrophoretic separation in gels with SDS, has been used to detect these unique cancer markers. The current studies were focused on the immunohistochemical evaluation of the novel marker RAK. Serial sections, 5 mum thick, were cut from frozen or Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue blocks and immunostained with MAb RAK-BrI. All of the 53 cases of breast cancer tested RAK positive and no differences were observed in the immunohistochemical staining of lobular and ductal carcinoma cases. In contrast, MAb RAK-BrI antigens were detected in only 3 of 15 cases of macroscopically normal breast removed during mastectomy for breast cancer. It is noteworthy that Western blots of breast samples from the same series demonstrated a high expression of three RAK antigens in 20/20 of invasive breast carcinomas, while there was only a very weak expression of RAK antigens in 2/7 of the macroscopically "normal" breast samples. Due to the suspected viral origin of RAK markers, immunohistochemical staining with MAb RAK-BrI might be a useful tool in the early detection of malignant changes occurring in breast tissues.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Changing incidence rate of invasive lobular breast carcinoma among older women	BACKGROUND: In 1998, an unusually large number of invasive lobular breast carcinoma cases were seen at the University of Washington. The purpose of this study was to assess whether the incidence rate of invasive lobular carcinoma has been increasing disproportionately compared with the incidence rate of invasive ductal carcinoma. METHODS: Age specific and age-adjusted breast carcinoma incidence rates from 1977-1995 were obtained from the nine population-based cancer registries that participate in the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) program. Three histologic groupings were used: lobular, ductal, and all invasive breast carcinomas. Overall incidence rates for each grouping, as well as for each stage (local, regional, and distant), were obtained. RESULTS: The rate of incidence of lobular carcinoma increased steadily from 1977-1995 in women age gtoreq 50 years whereas it remained stable in women age < 50 years. Alternatively, the rate of incidence of ductal carcinoma increased steadily from 1977-1987, but from 1987-1995 it remained relatively constant across all age groups. CONCLUSIONS: The incidence rates of invasive lobular breast carcinomas increased steadily since 1977 whereas the incidence rates of invasive ductal carcinoma have plateaued since 1987. This rise occurred specifically among women age gtoreq 50 years and may be related to postmenopausal status. Further epidemiologic, clinical, and laboratory research is required to assess what factors are contributing to this trend.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Hormone replacement therapy in relation to risk of lobular and ductal breast carcinoma in middle-aged women	BACKGROUND: In the majority of studies, long term, recent use of hormone replacement therapy has been associated with an increased risk of breast carcinoma. However, little attention has been paid to the possibility that the magnitude of this association may vary according to the histologic type of breast carcinoma. METHODS: In this population-based case-control study, interviews were conducted with 537 female residents of King County, Washington who were ages 50-64 years and who had been diagnosed with primary breast carcinoma between January 1, 1988 and June 30, 1990. Interviews with 492 randomly selected King County women without a history of breast carcinoma served as a basis for comparison. Analyses were performed separately for women with lobular and for those with ductal tumors. RESULTS: Compared with nonusers of menopausal hormones, those who currently were using combined estrogen and progestin hormone replacement therapy (CHRT) and had done so for at least 6 months had an elevated risk of lobular breast carcinoma (odds ratio (OR) = 2.6; 95% confidence interval (95% CI), 1.1-5.8), but no change in their risk of ductal breast carcinoma was noted (OR = 0.7; 95% CI, 0.5-1.1). The OR associated with current use of unopposed estrogen for at least 6 months was 1.5 (95% CI, 0.5-3.9) for lobular tumors and 0.7 (95% CI, 0.4-1.1) for ductal tumors. Similar results were found when cases of invasive tumor were analyzed separately. CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that CHRT use increases the risk of lobular, but not ductal, breast carcinoma in middle-aged women.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytomorphologic features of classic and variant lobular carcinoma: A comparative study	There are several subtypes of lobular carcinoma (LC), and their cytomorphologic features differ from classic lobular carcinoma (CLC). The finer details of the differences between CLC and variant lobular carcinoma (VLC) have not been adequately studied. A comparative study of 54 cases of CLC and VLC was done in order to verify any statistically significant differences between them. All cases had histologic confirmation of the diagnosis. Six parameters, which included cellularity, signet-ring cells, intracytoplasmic lumina (ICL), anisonucleosis, cell size, and prominent nucleoli, were studied. The only statistically significant findings were cellularity and cell size when compared to CLC. The cellularity in VLC was higher and the cells in VLC were larger when compared to CLC. There are no definite diagnostic features to identify VLC; however, in a cellular specimen with plenty of large cells with other features of LC, one should have a high index of suspicion of VLC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Glut-1 overexpression in human breast cancers		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma in situ in sclerosing adenosis	The initial presentation of breast malignancy as noninvasive carcinoma in an area of sclerosing adenosis is unusual. Especially, lobular carcinoma in situ in sclerosing adenosis sometimes can be a potential source of confusion with invasive lobular carcinoma. We report a case of lobular carcinoma in situ presenting in adenosis exhibiting patterns akin to invasive lobular carcinoma, thus leading to potential misdiagnosis. Overall architecture of the lesion as seen at lower power and immunohistochemistry can be useful to distinguish between sclerosing adenosis with lobular carcinoma in situ and infiltrating lobular carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma of the breast metastatic to the oral cavity mimicking polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma of the minor salivary glands	The oral cavity is a rare site of metastatic lesions; however, metastatic breast carcinoma must be included in the differential diagnosis of tumors of that site in women. We describe a 54-year-old woman who presented with a lesion of the floor of the mouth that histologically resembled polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma of the minor salivary glands, which was eventually established to represent metastatic lobular breast carcinoma. The final diagnosis was based on comparison with a primary tumor resected 13 years earlier and immunohistochemical reactivity with antibodies to steroid receptors. Relevant aspects of lobular breast carcinoma, polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma, and metastatic oral cavity lesions are discussed.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Incidence of invasive breast cancer (IBC) after lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Long-term results of neoadjuvant radiation therapy for breast cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	E-cadherin expression in mixed ductal and lobular carcinomas of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cellularity of lobular carcinoma; A cytohistological comparative study		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Utility of a proliferation-apoptosis ratio in breast lesions		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast: Histopathology as a prognostic factor	Purpose: Breast lobular carcinoma has unique features distinguishing it from breast ductal carcinoma. It is frequently multicentric and bilateral, has positive spreading edges, affects the contralateral breast, and invades the axillary lymph nodes. We analyse the prognostic value of these and other factors and their influence upon survival. Material and methods: A multi-Center study was carried out in a population of 390 patients to evaluate the characteristics defining the prognosis of stages I, II and III invasive breast lobular carcinoma observed between 1980 and 1997. Tumor size, degree of axillary affection, positive spreading of the piece edges, tissue malignancy, multicentric character, and state of the tumor receptors were considered, trying to correlate them with long term survival. Results and conclusions: From a statistical point of view, the axillary affection, size of the tumor at the moment of detection, and grade of histological malignancy were the features more influencing the prognosis. The multicentric character and the positive edges treated by re-excicion did not affect survival.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of glycodelin in human breast and breast cancer	Glycodelin is a 28 kDa glycoprotein with structural homology to beta-lactoglobulins, particularly expressed in steroid-responsive tissues of the female reproductive tract. We previously found that transfection of glycodelin cDNA into MCF-7 breast cancer cells induces differentiation into organized acinar epithelium and up-regulation of epithelial markers. In this study, we used immunohistochemistry, Northern blotting and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analyses to study glycodelin expression in normal and in malignant breast tissues. The results were compared with the expression of estrogen (ER) and progesterone receptors (PR) and p53 tumor suppressor protein. Glycodelin was found in ductal and lobular epithelium of 6/6 normal breast tissues, 27/29 morphologically normal breast tissues from breast cancer patients, 6/6 benign lactating adenomas, 21/35 ductal carcinomas, 9/9 tubular carcinomas, 9/9 mucinous carcinomas, 3/3 mixed ductal/tubular carcinomas and 7/11 lobular carcinomas. In the latter, of particular interest was the presence of glycodelin in paranucleolar vacuoles of carcinoma cells. Northern blot analysis of fresh frozen tissues revealed the normal full length 0.9 kb mRNA of glycodelin in ductal breast carcinoma. Using RT-PCR analysis, glycodelin messenger ribonucleic acid was found in 13/13 ductal and in 3/3 tubular tumor tissues. We also detected a splicing variant lacking exon 4, which includes the nucleotide sequence encoding the potential N-glycosylation site at Asn-85. Our results demonstrate the synthesis of glycodelin in normal breast and breast cancer. In addition, we show that the paranuclear vacuole, characteristically present in lobular breast cancer cells, contains abundant amounts of glycodelin.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytosolic p53 protein and serum p53 autoantibody evaluation in breast cancer. Comparison with prognostic factors	Mutations of the TP53 gene induce the production of an abnormal protein (p53) with a prolonged half-life allowing its detection by monoclonal antibodies and leading to a development of serum p53 autoantibodies. We have quantified the protein p53 in 196 cytosols of primary breast cancer tissues, by an immunoluminometric method and searched for p53 autoantibodies in the sera of 101 patients, by an immunoenzymatic assay. The median value has been chosen as cut-off (0.26 ng/mg protein). 18.4% of tumors had a p53 level < 0.10 ng/mg protein, and 8.2% had a p53 level gtoreq 2.5 ng/mg protein (range: 0-43.37). We found a significant difference between p53 distribution (p = 0.003) and median level (p = 0.001) in ductal and lobular carcinomas. The p53 median levels were significantly different between the grade III versus the grade I tumors (p = 0.01) and versus the grade II tumors (p = 0.008). An inverse correlation was obtained between p53 levels and ER (p = 0.003) alone or with PR (p = 0.006). p53 autoantibodies were detected in 7.9% of cases (8/101). This p53 study shows correlations with some poor prognostic factors, but would require further evaluation to better define the patient groups with poor prognosis. The p53 detection autoantibodies is neither correlated with the p53 cytosolic assay nor with prognostic factors of breast cancer, and should therefore not be used for patient the selection of the patient groups with poor prognosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Invasive cystic hypersecretory ductal carcinoma of breast: A case report and review of the literature	Few individual cases of invasive cystic hypersecretory ductal carcinoma of the breast have been described. Review of 33 cases of cystic hypersecretory carcinoma, including the current case, indicate that only 6 cases presented with invasive disease. Two of these cases had positive nodes and 2 had distal metastases. The case presented here is unique in an additional aspect: the contralateral breast harbored lobular breast carcinoma 10 years after mastectomy of the first malignancy. Bilateral breast disease resulting in bilateral mastectomies over long-term follow-up, as in the case presented here, was reported in 3 of 33 cases.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Orbital metastasis due to interval lobular carcinoma of the breast: A potential mimic of lymphoma	A 53-year-old woman had an orbital mass composed of a neoplastic small round cell infiltrate and no apparent extraorbital primary tumor. Although the initial diagnosis was primary orbital lymphoma, a combination of mucin histochemistry and immunohistochemical staining for cytokeratin and estrogen receptors led to the discovery of an impalpable lobular carcinoma of the breast. We discuss how detailed histopathological assessment can lead to beneficial therapy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Low incidence of germline and somatic alterations in the E-cadherin gene in lobular breast carcinoma.	Germline mutations of E-cadherin have been identified in families with gastric cancer. Moreover, E-cadherin has been shown to be inactivated in the majority of human invasive lobular breast cancers. E-cadherin is a tumor suppressor gene located in 16q22.1, a region which is frequently deleted in a variety of tumors. We therefore analysed 15 families with lobular breast cancer or breast and gastric cancer for germline mutations and 20 sporadic lobular breast carcinomas for somatic mutations in the E-cadherin gene. Screening of the lobular breast cancer families revealed two germline mutations of the missense type (A592T, P692L). One of these mutations (A592T) has previously been identified in a sporadic papillary thyroid tumor. No germline mutations were found in breast and gastric cancer associated families. Only 2 mutations could be identified in the tumor panel. Both were of the frameshift type and associated with LOH causing inactivation of E-cadherin. We here report for the first time germline mutations in the E-cadherin gene in families with lobular breast carcinomas. In addition, the frequency of E-cadherin mutations in our panel of lobular breast carcinomas is lower than published in former studies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The role of bilateral prophylactic mastectomy (BPMX) in women at high risk of breast cancer.		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Primary signet-ring cell carcinoma of the eyelid. Report of a case demonstrating further analogy to lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Assessment of pathologic prognostic factors in breast core needle biopsies	Background: Core needle biopsies (CNB) are being used increasingly as the initial diagnostic procedure in women with breast cancer. Many clinicians are interested in obtaining as much prognostic information as possible from these limited specimens. However, the accuracy of assessing pathologic prognostic factors in core biopsy material has not been studied in detail. Design: We studied CNB and subsequent excision specimens from 79 women with invasive breast cancer. Slides from CNB and excision specimens were reviewed in a blinded fashion and each was assessed for histologic type, tumor size, histologic grade, lymphatic vessel invasion (LVI), and the presence of an extensive intraductal component (EIC). Results: Among the 79 cancers, there were 58 invasive ductal carcinomas, six invasive lobular carcinomas, 13 invasive carcinomas with ductal and lobular features and two tubular carcinomas, based on examination of the excision specimens. Histologic type on CNB correlated with that on exc ision in 64 cases (81%). Although there was a significant correlation between tumor size on CNB and excision specimens (r2 = 0.30, P = 0.01), the pathologic T stage was underestimated on CNB in 79% of cases. Furthermore, T substage was underestimated on CNB in 71% of T1 lesions. There was concordance in histologic grade between CNB and excisions in 75% of cases. Among the 20 discordant cases, the grade was higher in the excision than in the CNB in 13 cases and lower in seven. However, all discrepancies were within one grade. None of the 17 cancers with LVI in the excision specimen showed LVI on the CNB. Among 14 cases with an EIC on the excision specimen, only four (29%) were scored as having an EIC on CNB. Conclusion: Histologic type can be accurately determined on CNB in most cases. While there was concordance in histologic grade between CNB and excision in the majority of cases, grade was discordant in a substantial minority (25%). The ability to accurately determine tumor size (pa thologic T-stage), LVI, and EIC on CNB is severely limited.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	False negative cytologic diagnosis of breast carcinoma	OBJECTIVE: To study the reasons for interpretive errors in false negative diagnosis of breast carcinoma on fine needle aspiration cytology material. STUDY DESIGN: We reviewed only those histologically proved malignant cases where the cytologic material was abnormal and to some extent misinterpreted. RESULTS: There were four lobular carcinomas and one each case of in situ, infiltrating duct, medullary and tubular carcinoma. Smears of lobular carcinomas were hypocellular overall, and the cells showed minimal nuclear pleomorphism. In situ, medullary an tubular carcinoma were associated with fibrocystic changes. The presence of bipolar cells and stromal fragments was misleading in cases of infiltrating duct carcinoma. CONCLUSION: The presence of associated fibrocystic disease may be a misleading factor since it may mask a malignancy. Hypocellularity and relatively nuclear monomorphism were the most common reasons for failure to diagnose malignant breast lesions. Careful attention should be paid to extreme nuclear monomorphism and absence of naked bipolar cells. A cytologically atypical or suspicious diagnosis together with radiologic suspicion should suggest a diagnosis of malignancy.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Correlation of numerical and structural status of chromosome 16 with histological type and grade of non-invasive and invasive breast carcinomas	Loss of heterozygosity on chromosome arm 16q frequently occurs in human breast carcinomas regardless of the histological grade or type. To reveal whether the status of chromosome 16 corresponds to the histology of breast carcinomas, we examined the signal number of 16cen, 16q breakpoints and 1;16 fusions in the interphase nuclei of 185 breast carcinomas using fluorescence in situ hybridization to detect the loci D16Z2 (16cen), D16Z3 (16q11), D16S154 (16q24) and D1Z1 (1q12). A 16q loss associated with a proximal or distal breakage was identified as a discrepancy between the modal signal counts of the D16Z2, D16Z3 and D16S154 loci in each tumor. Clonal 16cen aneusomy, proximal breakages, distal breakages and l;16 fusion were detected in 62%, 35%, 34% and 38% of the carcinomas respectively. Each of these alterations correlated with the histology of both non-invasive and invasive carcinomas; 16cen aneusomy was more frequent in carcinomas of high histologic grade, proximal breakage was more frequent in invasive ductal carcinomas (IDCs) of the strand or solid types and in grade-2 and -3 carcinomas, and distal breakage was more frequent in tubular/cribriform type IDCs and grade-1 carcinomas. 1;16 fusion correlated with the tubular/cribriform type of non-invasive or invasive carcinomas and invasive lobular carcinomas. Proximal breakage correlated with 16cen aneusomy, whereas the distal breakage correlated with 16cen disomy. These structural and numerical chromosome alterations appeared to occur in association with each other, and their specific combinations appeared to be involved in the establishment of morphological variety among breast carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diffuse type gastric and lobular breast carcinoma in a familial gastric cancer patient with an E-cadherin germline mutation	E-Cadherin alterations have been reported frequently in sporadic diffuse type gastric and lobular breast carcinomas. Germline mutations of this gene have been identified recently in several gastric cancer families. We analyzed seven patients with a family history of the disease who had diffuse type gastric cancer diagnosed before the age of 45 for germline mutations in CDH1, the gene encoding the E-cadherin protein. We identified a frameshift mutation in exon 3 in one patient with a strong family history of gastric cancer. The same germline mutation was found in the patient's mother, who had metachronous development of lobular breast and diffuse type gastric carcinomas. Immunohistochemistry for E-cadherin protein expression revealed an abnormal staining pattern in both of these tumors, suggesting complete inactivation of the cell adhesion molecule. Thus, our finding suggests that besides diffuse type gastric cancer, lobular breast carcinomas may be associated with germline CDH1 mutations.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Ultrasound findings in pure invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast: Comparison with matched cases of invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast	Pure invasive lobular carcinoma is more difficult to diagnose clinically and mammographically than other invasive breast carcinomas. Our objective was to document the ultrasound appearances of pure invasive lobular carcinoma, to determine whether there were any specific features when compared to similar cases of invasive ductal carcinoma, and to compare the sensitivity of ultrasound with mammography in the diagnosis of invasive lobular carcinoma. We report on 23 cases of invasive lobular carcinoma who were matched for age and presentation with cases of invasive ductal carcinoma. High frequency ultrasound detected lesions in 22 cases of invasive lobular carcinoma and all had features highly suggestive of malignancy. Twenty-one of 23 cases of invasive ductal carcinoma also had malignant features. At mammography, six cases of invasive lobular carcinoma were not detected. Ultrasound is as specific for identifying invasive lobular carcinoma as it is for invasive ductal carcinoma. Ultrasoundwas more sensitive than mammography for diagnosing invasive lobular carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Hormone replacement therapy and risk of breast cancer with a favorable histology: Results of the Iowa Women's Health Study	Context Long-term, postmenopausal use of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) appears to increase breast cancer risk. Whether the effect of HRT use on risk of breast cancer varies among histological types of invasive carcinoma is unknown. Objective To determine associations between HRT use and risk of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), invasive carcinoma with favorable histology, and invasive ductal or lobular carcinoma. Design Prospective cohort study whose participants were followed up continuously for 11 years from January 1986 to December 1996. Setting and Participants Iowa Women's Health Study, a population-based random sample of postmenopausal women aged 55 to 69 years in 1986. A total of 1520 incident breast cancer cases occurred in the at-risk cohort of 37 105 women. Main Outcome Measures Multivariate-adjusted relative risk (RR) of tumor-specific breast cancers associated with duration of ever, current, or past HRT use. Results Duration of ever HRT use was associated with risk of invasive carcinoma with a favorable histology, with an RR of 1.81 (95% confidence interval (CI), 1.07-3.07) for those who used HRT 5 or fewer years vs an RR of 2.65 (95% CI, 1.34-5.23) for those who used HRT for more than 5 years (P for trend = .005) after adjustment for age and other breast cancer risk factors. There was no association between ever HRT use and the incidence of DCIS or invasive ductal or lobular carcinoma. Among current hormone users, after adjusting for age and other breast cancer risk factors, the RRs (95% CIs) of invasive carcinoma with a favorable histology were 4.42 (2.00-9.76) and 2.63 (1.18-5.89) for 5 or fewer years of use and for more than 5 years of use, respectively. Risk of invasive ductal or lobular carcinoma was associated with current use (ltoreq5 years) of HRT with an RR of 1.38 (95% CI, 1.03-1.85). Conclusions Exposure to HRT was associated most strongly with an increased risk of invasive breast cancer with a favorable prognosis. These data add important clinical information for assessing the risks and benefits of HRT use.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Tumor displacement in large gauge needle core biopsies: Presence in excision specimens		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Multilevel sectioning of sentinel lymph nodes: Role in breast cancer staging?		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Atypical cystic lobules of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Assessment of standard prognostic factors in breast core needle biopsies (CNB)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Surgical biopsy findings in patients with lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS) or atypical lobular hyperplasia (ALH) at percutaneous breast biopsy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Infiltrating "lobular-type" carcinoma of the pancreas: A morphologically distinctive variant of ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreas mimicking lobular carcinoma of the breast		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Combined administration of paclitaxel and E1A cDNA lipofection against metastatic lobular breast carcinoma has induced the D2 stage of apoptosis		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Clinicopathologic features and incidence of invasive lobular carcinoma in Japanese women	Intending to clarify the true incidence of invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast in Japanese women as well as the frequency of unilateral multicentricity, 362 cases of clinically defined monocentric breast cancer without pre-operative biopsy (previously fine needle aspiration or needle biopsy were routinely carried out for every case) were examined by whole mammary gland serial sectioning. On the basis of pathology and the World Health Organization classification of breast tumors, each case was assigned to one of two main histologic types: invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) or invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC). Invasive lobular carcinoma was further separated into classic and variant types by employing previously published criteria. Twenty-one cases of ILC (5.8%) were diagnosed, which is more than in most previous Japanese studies. Unilateral multicentric breast carcinoma was detected in 9.5% of ILC and 16.1% of IDC (the difference was found not significant). Microscopically, ILC tumors were found to be, on average, larger than IDC. Patients with classic type ILC tended to be younger than those with variant type or IDC. Estrogen receptor expression was found more frequently in variant type ILC than in classic type. These results suggest that the incidence of invasive lobular carcinoma of the breast in Japanese women is low and that unilateral multicentricity is not significantly higher in ILC than in IDC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular breast carcinoma metastatic to the vulva: A case report and literature review	Background. Six previous reports have documented a vulvar metastasis from breast cancer; one has noted involvement of the Bartholin's gland. Case. A 53-year-old woman presented with an enlarging vulvar mass. Evaluation also identified a breast lesion. Surgical excision confirmed an invasive lobular breast carcinoma with a distant metastatic focus on the vulva. Conclusion. This is the first report in the English literature to document a vulvar metastasis from an invasive lobular carcinoma and the second to identify involvement of the Bartholin's gland. Careful gynecologic surveillance is needed in women with breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Helpful indicators for cytologic diagnosis of infiltrating ductal and lobular carcinoma of the breast in fine needle aspiration specimens		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Coincidence of primary non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and invasive lobular carcinoma of the breasts		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The expression of p120ctn protein in breast cancer is independent of alpha- and beta-catenin and E-cadherin	Several studies have reported loss or alteration of expression of E-cadherin in breast cancer and more recently changes in levels of expression of the catenins. We used immunofluorescence to examine E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and p120ctn (formerly p120CAS) expression in 91 cases of invasive ductal carcinoma. As expected, all four proteins co-localize to the junctional regions of the cells. Although nuclear localization has been described for beta-catenin in colonic polyps, no examples were found in these breast cancer cases. We found that, although alteration is common in the catenins and E-cadherin, complete loss, as exemplified by E-cadherin in lobular carcinoma (where E-cadherin is frequently mutated), is rarely seen. In contrast, the catenin-related protein p120ctn shows an expression pattern that is significantly unrelated to the other catenins (or E-cadherin), including complete loss of expression in approximately 10% of the cases. No statistically significant correlations with traditional prognostic indicators were observed with any of these proteins. We conclude 1) that expression of E-cadherin and a and beta-catenin are generally retained at the membrane although frequently reduced or altered, 2) that complete loss of p120ctn expression is seen in approximately 100/o of the cases, and 3) that there is a significant correlation in the expression of E-cadherin and the catenins but no correlation between these molecules and p120ctn, suggesting an absence of coordinate regulation.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cytologic diagnosis of breast lesions: Difficulties and limitations	Diagnostic difficulties can arise during the cytologic diagnosis of almost all types of breast lesions. "True" difficulties, which are discussed herein, should be differentiated from difficulties due to faulty technique. The frequency of diagnostic difficulties varies across lesions: the proportion of "suspicious" specimens is 4% in adenofibroma, 5 to 7% in cancer, and 17% in epithelial duct hyperplasia, and the false-negative rate in cancer is 3 to 5%. Many difficulties can be overcome by a good knowledge of breast cytopathology. Others are insuperable and should remain so to avoid diagnostic mistakes. In these cases, which should be considered "suspicious", the clearly written documented report should request a histological study. The distinction between duct carcinoma and lobular carcinoma remains difficult, and that between invasive carcinoma and intraductal carcinoma requires a histologic study.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Patterns of breast relapse following breast conserving surgery and radiotherapy		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Expression of gap junction proteins connexin 26 and connexin 43 in normal human breast and in breast tumours	Gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) has been proposed as a cellular mechanism for tumour suppression and there is experimental evidence in support of this. If aberrant GJIC contributes to the formation of human breast tumours, one might expect that the connexins (gap junction proteins) expressed by epithelial cells in normal human breast would be down-regulated in tumour epithelial cells, or that tumour cells might show aberrant expression of other connexin family members. This study examines the immunocytochemical expression of connexins 26 (Cx26) and 43 (Cx43) in normal human breast, 11 benign breast lesions, two special-type carcinomas, and 27 invasive carcinomas of no special histological type (NST). Cx26 generally was not expressed at detectable levels in normal human breast, but punctate Cx43 immunostaining of the myoepithelial cells was found. Cx43 staining of the myoepithelium was also a feature of the benign lesions and ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). In general, the epithelial cells of benign lesions failed to stain for either connexin. Similarly, a lobular carcinoma did not express Cx26 or Cx43, but there was punctate Cx43 in the epithelial cells of a mucoid carcinoma. Cx26 was up-regulated in the carcinoma cells of 15 of the 27 invasive NST carcinomas, although the staining was usually cytoplasmic and heterogeneous. Cx43 was expressed by stromal cells,, possibly myofibroblasts, in all NST carcinomas. Furthermore, there was heterogeneous Cx43 expression in the carcinoma cells of 14 of the 27 NST carcinomas and the staining was often intercellular and punctate, characteristic of functional connexins. Up-regulation of Cx26 and/or Cx43 in the carcinoma cells of over two-thirds of invasive lesions of NST is not necessarily inconsistent with a tumour suppressor role for GJIC. However, the role of gap junctions in the formation and progression of solid human tumours is likely to be more complex than indicated from experimental systems.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Qualitative and quanitative immunophenotypic distinctions between ductal and lobular carcinomas		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A comparison of metastatic patterns of invasive ductal and lobular carcinomas of the breast: Results of a matched study	Five studies comparing metastatic patterns of lobular and ductal carcinoma have reported conflicting results. These results are based on the evaluation of heterogeneous groups, without taking clinical differences into account. The aim of this clinical study is to compare metastatic patterns of matched ductal and lobular carcinomas. One hundred eighty-eight lobular carcinomas were matched with 188 ductal carcinomas who showed identical ages, menopausal status, TNM, and dates of treatment. Hepatic, lung and brain metastases are more frequent in ductal carcinoma. Metastases to the gastrointestinal system, gynecologic organs, and peritoneum are more characteristic of lobular carcinoma. Life table analysis of overall and disease free survival shows no significant differences. The metastatic patterns of ductal and lobular carcinomas are different, and physicians should.be aware that the classical staging of the breast cancer is not fit to lobular carcinoma. Could we define patients presenting high metastatic risks? Could we use CA. 125, sonography, laparoscopy in the staging? Should we change the whole therapeutic approach of lobular carcinoma?	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	The localization of the insulin-like growth factor receptor 1 (IGFR-1) in benign and malignant breast tissue	Insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) play an important role in normal cellular growth and development and have been implicated in the regulation of tumour growth. Two receptors are recognized, IGFR-1 and IGFR-2, of which one, IGFR-1, is a transmembrane heterodimer structurally similar to the insulin receptor. Studies using ligand-binding assays have suggested that the proportion of human breast carcinomas expressing IGFR-1 varies between 39 and 93 per cent and all suggest a lower level of IGFR-1 expression in benign mammary epithelia. As there is this variation between studies and since no study appears to have examined the immunohistochemical localization of IGFR-1 within breast tissue, a series of 79 infiltrating ductal carcinomas, 11 infiltrating lobular carcinomas, three cases of pure ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), seven fibroadenomas, and eight normal breast specimens have been studied utilizing the monoclonal antibody alphaIR3. IGFR-1 localized to the epithelial component of 90 per cent of the carcinomas, with only cytoplasmic (21 per cent), only membrane (5 per cent), or a mixture of both cytoplasmic and membrane (64 per cent) staining patterns. In some tumours, (P=0.0009). There was a significant correlation between the level of IGFR-1 immunostaining with both oestrogen receptor (P<0.001) and progesterone receptor (P=0.0018) positivity within the malignant group. All normal mammary epithelium showed strong labelling, which was often at an intensity matching that, of the most strongly labelled carcinoma and occasionally visualized as basolateral staining of the luminal cells. Weak to moderate staining of endothelial cells was also) observed. It is concluded that IGFR-1 immunoreactivity is found in the majority of breast carcinomas, where it correlates most closely with oestrogen receptor status. The high intensity labelling of normal cells seen in this study contrasts with the low levels inferred from ligand-binding-based techniques and emphasizes the importance of the morphological approach in the investigation of novel-molecules.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Cellular heterogeneity of residual tumor cell contamination in peripheral blood stem cell collections from patients with ductal vs lobular breast carcinoma		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A multi-institutional study on the efficacy of prophylactic mastectomy in patients with lobular carcinoma in situ (LCIS)		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diagnostic difficulties in invasive lobular carcinoma. Contribution of ultrasonography in 33 cases	Thirty three invasive lobular carcinoma (ILC) were submitted to mammography, ultrasonography and finally surgery. The type of tumor proliferation and the absence of microcalcifications within the invasive tissue led to 15% of false negative responses in the mammographic analysis. Ultrasonography disclosed only 12% of false negatives. Sonographic appearance, especially fine needle aspirations or microbiopsy under ultrasonographic control, allows modification of mammographic and clinical diagnosis errors. Thus, this method appears of importance in diagnosis of ILC.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma. Flow cytometric, p53 and PCNA analysis	Polymorphous low-grade adenocarcinoma of minor salivary glands (terminal duct carcinoma, lobular carcinoma) was first defined more than a decade ago. A 17% recurrence rate and a 9% metastasis rate have been reported. Fifteen formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded archival cases were analyzed. Ploidy and proliferative activity were evaluated with flow cytometric analysis. Demonstration of an abnormal p53 gene product and proliferative cell nuclear antigen analyses were also performed with routine immunohistochemical procedures. The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate these parameters and determine if a correlation existed. Flow cytometry was performed on 10 cases; 3 showed an aneuploid cell line (mean, S-phase diploid tumor cells 5.9%; S-phase aneuploid 26.7%). Products of a mutation of the p53 tumor suppressor gene have been noted to accumulate in salivary gland tumors, both benign and malignant. Qualitative assessment revealed p53 positive staining in 4 of 15 tumors; positive cells comprised 5% to 10% of the tumor. The percentage of tumor cells positive for proliferative cell nuclear antigen staining ranged from 0.5% to 70%. There was no correlation between proliferative activity as determined by proliferative cell nuclear antigen when compared with results of flow cytometric analysis except for one case that exhibited p53 staining, a 26% proliferative cell nuclear antigen fraction, and a distinct aneuploid cell line.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Chromosome 1 aneusomy with 1p36 under-representation is related to histologic grade, DNA aneuploidy, high c-erb B-2 and loss of bcl-2 expression in ductal breast carcinoma	Chromosome 1 abnormalities with loss of 1p36 have been investigated in 95 breast-cancer samples by means of a dual-target fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) technique using the pUC 1.77 and pI-79 probes, specific for the 1q12 and 1p36 regions, respectively. Abnormalities for one or both probes were detected in 83/95 samples. Relative 1p36 under-representation was found in 79/95. The clinical relevance of these alterations was studied by comparing the FISH results with several parameters currently used in breast-cancer pathology. Distinct patterns of chromosome 1 abnormalities were found among the histologic types of breast carcinoma. Lobular or mucinous samples showed few or no alterations, whereas most ductal samples had high chromosome 1 polysomy with under-representation of 1p36. In ductal carcinomas, chromosome 1 alterations increased with histologic grade, DNA aneuploidy, loss of bcl-2 and high c-erb B-2 expression. These associations were found to be statistically significant. No correlation between chromosome 1 alterations and nuclear grade, age, size, lymph-node involvement, hormonal receptor presence, proliferation activity or p53 protein expression was detected. These results indicate the utility of this FISH technique for a better definition of the biological characteristics of ductal carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Metastatic patterns of invasive lobular versus invasive ductal carcinoma of the breast	Background. Many studies have analyzed the metastatic patterns of breast carcinoma. However, very few studies have analyzed the differences in metastatic patterns of lobular versus ductal carcinoma. Methods. By use of our tumor registry, the metastatic sites of all invasive lobular and invasive ductal breast carcinoma cases during an 18-year period (January 1973 to December 1990) were analyzed. Results. There were 2505 cases of invasive lobular and invasive ductal breast carcinoma. Lobular carcinoma accounted for 359 (14%) and ductal carcinoma for 2246 (86%) of the cases. The percentage of patients with regional lymph node metastasis at diagnosis was not significantly different between the two groups. The rates of metastasis to all lymph nodes, liver, and central nervous system were not significantly different. However, the rates of metastasis to the gastrointestinal system (4.5% vs 0.2%), gynecologic organs (4.5% vs 0.8%), peritoneum-retroperitoneum (3.7% us 0.6%), adrenal glands (0.6% vs 0%), bone-marrow (21.2% us 14.4%), and lung-pleura (2.5% vs 10.2%) were significantly different (p lt 0.05). Conclusions. The metastatic patterns of lobular and ductal carcinoma of the breast are different, with gastrointestinal system, gynecologic organ, and peritoneum-retroperitoneum metastases markedly more prevalent in lobular carcinoma. Physicians should be aware of these different metastatic patterns of lobular and ductal carcinoma of the breast.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PRE-CANCEROUS BREAST LESIONS IMPLICATIONS FOR BREAST CANCER PREVENTION TRIALS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	EPITHELIAL CADHERIN EXPRESSION IN BREAST CARCINOMAS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CHANGES IN BASEMENT MEMBRANE AND MYOEPITHELIAL CELLS IN BENIGN AND MALIGNANT LESIONS OF BREAST	Patterns of basement membrane (BM) and myoepithelial cell (MEC) impairment was investigated in 110 cases of benign and malignant lesions of the breasts by means of anti-collagen IV and anti-actin antibody immunohistochemcial techniques. The appearance of BM and MEC changes are summarized as follows: (1) An intact pattern was seen in lobular hyperplasia, benign tumors, intraductual carcinoma and lobular carcinoma in situ; (2) disruptive patterns were seen in carcinoma with early microinvasion locally; (3) patterns of fragmentation or absences were seen in invasive carcinomas. Quantitative analyses of the percentage of collagen IV length in ductal circumference examined showed 98%, 89%, and < 46% in above groups respectively. A negative relationship between the aneuploidic DNA content and changes in BM integrity was demonstrated in ductal carcinoma (r = -0.914, P < 0.05). These results suggest the distribution patterns of BM and MEC after staining with immunohistochemical techniques are valuable markers for distinguishing breast carcinoma invasion, especially local invasion in early stages.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BREAST CANCER SECOND OF THREE PARTS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Pathology of the breast	This text will provide a valuable reference for the radiologist, surgeon, pathologist, and oncologist. It covers the morphologic features and differential diagnosis of breast lesions, and where appropriate, the historic background of the lesion is presented, followed by the clinical signs and symptoms, pathologic features, prognostic factors, and finally the treatment. The chapters focus on normal development and anomalies, specimen processing, benign lesions, intraductal hyperplasias, papillary lesions, intraductal carcinoma, lobular neoplasia, infiltrating carcinomas, biphasic tumors, vascular lesions, mesenchymal lesions, diseases of the nipple, miscellaneous lesions, and male breast lesions. Diagrams, microscopic photographs, tables, and references supplement each chapter. The third chapter has been contributed by an additional author, Dr. Stuart J. Schnitt.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BREAST CARCINOMA-IN-SITU AN EMERGING PROBLEM IN SINGAPORE	Breast carcinoma-in-situ constitutes 4.1% of 707 breast cancers diagnosed between 1988 and 1990. Among these 30 patients, intraductal carcinoma-in-situ (DCIS) outnumbers lobular carcinoma-in-situ (LCIS) by 9-fold. They are mostly symptomatic - 87% present as breast lumps and/or nipple discharge, with 52% of lumps exceeding 2 cm size. Three patients were detected by screening mammography and it is expected that more breast carcinoma-in-situ will be detected through mammographic screening. Two-thirds of the patients had mastectomy while the rest had lesser procedures. The different surgical procedures and adjuvant therapy instituted for the patients are reflections of the differing opinions regarding optimum therapy for carcinoma-in-situ and the differing rationale for DCIS and LCIS lesions.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	An immunohistochemical study of the breast using antibodies to basal and luminal keratins, alpha-smooth muscle actin, vimentin, collagen IV and laminin: Part II: Epitheliosis and ductal carcinoma in situ	A detailed immunohistochemical study has been carried out on 63 breast lesions with epitheliosis, ductal carcinoma in situ and clinging carcinoma (lobular cancerization), using antibodies directed against keratins 5/14 and 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, vimentin, smooth muscle actin, collagen IV and laminin. The results have shown that epitheliosis on the one hand and ductal in situ and clinging carcinoma on the other are immunohistochemically different epithelial lesions. Epitheliosis appears to be epithelial hyperplasia with keratin 5/14 and keratin 14, 15, 16, 18, 19-positive cells. Compared to epitheliotic cells tumor cells of clinging carcinoma, lobular cancerization and ductal carcinoma in situ expressed only luminal keratins 14, 15, 16, 18, 19 in 85% of the cases studied; whereas in 15% there was a basal keratin expression. From our results we conclude that the clinging carcinoma (lobular cancerization) represents the initial morphological step in the development of ductal carcinoma in situ and thus may be interpreted as a minimal ductal neoplasia. With the immunohistochemical demonstration of basal and luminal keratins it may be possible in individual cases to differentiate between benign and malignant in situ lesions of the breast.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	DNA PLOIDY OF PRIMARY BREAST CANCER AND LOCAL RECURRENCE AFTER BREAST-CONSERVING THERAPY	The value of DNA-flow cytometry and clinico-pathological prognostic factors for the prediction of local recurrences after breast-conserving therapy (BCT) were evaluated in a retrospective study. Thirty-one patients with a local recurrence were compared with 31 matched patients without a local recurrence. Morphology and DNA-indices of the local recurrences and their corresponding primary tumours were compared. Ductal carcinoma in situ was present significantly more often in the group with a primary recurring tumor, than in the matched group (P < 0.001), and the same holds for lobular carcinoma (n = 5). Half of the tumors that recurred had macroscopically positive surgical margins compared ot about one-fourth of the matched group. Fifty-six per cent of the DNA-aneuploid stemlines in cases with local recurrence were present in the corresponding primary tumor as well (confidence limits 45%-75%), an indication that the majority local recurrences are true recurrences and not independently developed tumors. The lack of similarlity of DNA stemline between some primary DNA-aneuploid tumors and their local recurrences indicates that these tumors had developed independently. The percentage of DNA-aneuploid cases in the group with local recurrence (89%) did not differ significantly from that in the matched group (70%). However, the findings suggest a selective recurrence of DNA-diploid stemlines. This might indicate increased resistance of DNA-diploid tumour cells to radiotherapy as compared with the resistance level in DNA-aneuploid cells.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	SURVEY OF ASPIRATION BIOPSY CYTOLOGY OF THE BREAST		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PROPHYLACTIC SUBCUTANEOUS MASTECTOMY AN OPTIONAL ADJUNCT IN THE TREATMENT OF NONCANCEROUS LESIONS OF THE BREAST		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	KI-67 STAINING IN HISTOLOGICAL SUBTYPES OF BREAST CARCINOMA AND FINE NEEDLE ASPIRATION SMEARS	Thirty four cases of invasive breast carcinoma were analyzed for heterogeneity of Ki-67 reactivity in a tumor, and proliferative activity in various histological substypes was compared. The growth fractions determined in areas of central and peripheral tumor were the same. Mucinous and lobular carcinoma showed lower Ki-67 activity than ductal carcinomas. When ductal carcinomas were subdivided according to their dominant growth pattern, the carcinomas with a solid or comedo growth pattern showed the highest proliferative activity. These results largely confirm data from previous cell kinetic studies on the incorporation of radioactively labelled thymidine. A correlation between the growth fraction determined by Ki-67 in fine needle aspiration smears and cryostat sections of corresponding tumors was shown, implying that the immunostaining of cytological smears gives a reliable impression of the growth fraction of a tumor and may therefore be used in prospective studies.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	EXPRESSION OF KERATINS IN BREAST CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	AN ORIGINAL STEREOMICROSCOPIC ANALYSIS OF THE GALACTOPHORIC TREE		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE EXPRESSION OF CELL ADHESION MOLECULE UVOMORULIN IN BREAST CARCINOMA		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL DEMONSTRATION OF NONSPECIFIC CROSS-REACTING ANTIGEN IN NORMAL AND NEOPLASTIC HUMAN TISSUES USING A MONOCLONAL ANTIBODY COMPARISON WITH CARCINOEMBRYONIC ANTIGEN LOCALIZATION	Nonspecific cross-reacting antigen (NCA) immunoreactivity was localized in nromal and neoplastic human tissues using a monoclonal antibody to 55, 90 and 95 kDa molecules of NCA. This was compared to the localization of immunoreactive carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) as demonstrated by polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. In frozen sections, CEA was localized in normal surface epithelium of the stomach and colon where NCA was only weakly detected. Type 1 and type 2-like pneumocytes were positive for NCA, while CEA was localized only in type 2-like pneumocytes. CEA and NCA were both demonstrated in ductal cells of frozen pancreatobiliary and mammary tissues. The antigenicity of CEA and NCA in normal tissues was significantly lost after paraffin embedding as compared to frozen sections. NCA was consistently demonstrated in eccrine sweat glands embedded in paraffin. In various tumor tissues, CEA and NCA were colocalized and expression increased sufficiently to be detected in paraffin sections. Adenocarcinomas of the stomach and colon and cystadenocarcinoma of the pancreas, as well as neuroendocrine carcinomas of the lung and thyroid, showed a CEA predominance over NCA. In ductal adenocarcinomas of the pancreas and breast and in cholangiocarcinoma, NCA reactivity was greater than CEA. Keratinizing foci of most squamous cell carcinomas of mucosal origin and some adenocarcinomas equally expressed both. Hepatocellular carcinoma, lobular mammary carcinoma and papillary thyroid carcinoma were positive only with unabsorbed polyclonal antibody which widely recognizes CEA-related substances. Renal cell carcinoma, prostatic adenocarcinoma, transitional cell carcinoma, anaplastic carcinomas, choriocarinoma and basal cell carcinomas showed little or no immunoreactivity. Hence the relative ratio of CEA/NCA expression in tumors was dependent on the tissue of origin and histologic type. The cytoplasmic granular staining of NCA in cancer cells was a noteworthy difference from the plasma membrane-associated localization of CEA.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	EVALUATION OF SERUM SIALIC ACID HEAT STABLE ALKALINE PHOSPHATASE AND FUCOSE AS MARKERS OF BREAST CARCINOMA	Serum levels of total sialic acid (TSA), lipid bound sialic acid (LSA), heat stable alkaline phosphatase (HSAP) and fucose were measured in 39 patients with breast carcinoma, 14 patients with benign breast diseases and 35 healthy female individuals. Elevated levels of the four biomarkers in breast carcinoma were significant when compared with controls (p < 0.001). Fucose levels were most sensitive (71.8%), while TSA levels were most specific (64.3%) for breast carcinoma. Sensitivity and specificity were 100% when combinations of LSA with fucose and TSA with HSAP were studied respectively. LSA was significantly elevated in infiltrating duct carcinoma patients compared with lobular carcinoma (p < 0.001). TSA, HSAP and fucose also had lower mean values in lobular carcinoma as compared to infiltrating duct carcinoma. Increase in the levels of LSA and HSAP after surgical removal of the tumor in breast carcinoma occurred prior to the clinical evidence of the recurrence. The results indicate that the combination of the markers studied might be useful in breast cancer diagnosis and treatment monitoring.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BILATERAL BREAST CANCER AFTER CURED HODGKIN'S DISEASE	Three patients bilateral breast cancer at 10 to 24 years after mantle irradiation for locally or systemically advanced Hodgkin's disease (HD). Four of the six cancers in the three patients were detected only by mammography. Pathologically, five of the cancers were intraductal carcinoma (four with an invasive component) with one being a lobular carcinoma. Five of the six lesions were Stage I pathologically without evidence of axillary nodal involvement. It is recommended that female patients with Hodgkin's disease who have received mantle irradiation as part of the therapy for their Hodgkin's disease and who are observed for 10 or more years after completion of mantle irradiation be considered at risk for the development of breast cancer. Such patients should be monitored appropriately by routine bilateral mammograms to increase the early detection of early stage lesions.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	INDIVIDUAL AND COMBINED USEFULNESS OF LIPID ASSOCIATED SIALIC ACID MUCOID PROTEINS AND HEXOSES AS TUMOR MARKERS IN BREAST CARCINOMA	Serum levels of lipid associated sialic acid (LASA), mucoid proteins (MP) and hexoses (galactose + mannose) were measured in 41 breast cancer patients, 41 patients with benign breast diseases and 36 healthy age matched female individuals. In breast carcinoma patients, we have observed significant increase in the levels of the three markers compared with the controls (P < 0.001) and in MP and hexoses compared to the patients with benign breast diseases (P < 0.001). LASA and hexoses levels were significantly higher in benign breast diseases with respect to controls (P < 0.001 and P < 0.01, respectively). We evaluated the sensitivity and specificity of the markers individually and in combination. MP were most sensitive (71.8%) and specific (71.4%). Both sensitivity and specificity were increased when combinations of the markers were studied. Combination of MP with LASA was most sensitive (97.4%) while the combination of MP and hexoses was most specific (92.9%). LASA was significantly elevated in infiltrating duct carcinoma compared to lobular carcinoma (P < 0.001). MP and hexoses also showed higher mean value in infiltrating duct carcinoma than lobular carcinoma. The present study suggests that the combination of the markers investigated might be useful for diagnosis and classification of breast carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BREAST CANCERS WITH EXTREMELY HIGH ESTROGEN RECEPTOR PROTEIN STATUS	Seventeen cases of primary and one case of metastatic breast cancer which expressed greater than 900 fmol oestrogen receptor sites per mg soluble protein were examined. All these patients were post-menopausal at the time of their presentation. These were a heterogeneous group of well-differentiated cellular breast carcinomas, comprising cases of invasive duct carcinoma with extensive tubular differentiation or with focal argyrophilia, tubulolobular carcinoma, lobular carcinoma of mixed type containing abundant intracytoplasmic lumina, papillary carcinoma and type B colloid carcinoma. There was very little tumour necrosis. Nodal metastasis, tumour size and host inflammatory response did not appear to show any relationship with oestrogen receptor status. The patients, apart from two who died from other causes, remain alive (Fisher's exact test, P < 0.01). In contrast, 17 randomly selected cases of oestrogen receptor negative breast cancer in the same study period were focally necrotic, poorly-differentiated invasive duct carcinomas. Six patients died from metastatis disease, seven were alive and well, one was alive with metastic disease, one was lost to follow-up and two died from diseases unrelated to breast cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL EVALUATION OF REVERSE TRANSCRIPTASE IN BREAST CARCINOMA WITH POLYCLONAL ANTIBODIES RAISED IN RABBIT	In this study, the presence of reverse transcriptase in breast tumours was examined with immunoperoxidase staining using antibodies raised in rabbit against reverse transcriptase of Moloney murine leukemia virus and against reverse transcriptase of avian myeloblastosis virus. The specificity of such antibioties was investigated with ELISA and Western blotting techniques. Five cases of infiltrating ductal carcinomas were found positive with the immune serum anti-reverse transcriptase of Moloney murine leukemia virus on 28 studied infiltrating ductal carcinomas, 2 infiltrating lobular carcinomas and 2 fibroadenomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	DIFFERENTIAL DISTRIBUTION OF TENASCIN IN THE NORMAL HYPERPLASTIC AND NEOPLASTIC BREAST	We studied by immunohistochemistry the distribution of tenascin with the monoclonal antibody 100EB2, and compared it with that of laminin in breast tissue samples from fetal, adult resting, lactating, and aging parenchyma, variants of fibrocystic disease, fibroadenomas, cystosarcoma phylloides, and ductal and lobular carcinomas. Monoclonal antibodies were applied to cryosections by the avidin-biotin-complex method; selected samples were studied by double immunofluorescence, and by Western blot analysis. In adult resting and aging breasts, tenascin immunoreactivity was noted in the periductal and periacinar stromal regions as thin irregular bands; in the lactating breast, broader periductal bands were observed. In these samples, laminin immunoreactivity was a single continuous line around ducts, acini, and vessels. In fetal breasts, tenascin appeared as thick periductal bands, whereas laminin remained as a delicate single line. In FCD, tenascin increased around ducts showing hyperplasia, papillomas and apocrine metaplasia, whereas laminin retained its delicate linear pattern. Similar patterns were seen in fibroadenomas and cystosarcoma phylloides with variable tenascin reactivity in the stroma beyond the ducts. Tenascin immunoreactivity was markedly increased around ducts containing in situ carcinoma appearing as broad bands, whereas that of laminin showed a linear, frequently discontinuous appearance. Prominent stromal tenascin immunoreactivity was seen in infiltering ductal and lobular carcinomas, whereas laminin was virtually absent save for scattered lines. The abundance of tenascin in the carcinomatous stroma of tenascin with molecular weights 250,000 and 180,000 were shown in ductal and lobular carcinomas as well as in normal breast. Tenascin immunoreactivity was noted in the periepithelial stromal regions of adult resting and aging breast ducts and acini. The amount of tenascin was moderately enhanced in certain physiologic conditions (fetal growth, gestation), as well as hyperplasias, dysplasias (fibrocystic disease) and benign tumors, whereas it was markedly enhanced in intraductal and infiltrating carcinomas. During fetal mammary development, adult physiologic and pathologic hyperplasias, and in carcinomas, the increasing tenascin reactivity contrasted with the stable or decreasing laminin reactivity.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ESTROGEN RECEPTOR DETERMINATION IN SMALL-SIZED BREAST TUMORS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BREAST CANCER THE MILITARY'S EXPERIENCE AT WILFORD HALL USAF MEDICAL CENTER LOCKLAND AIR FORCE BASE TEXAS USA	We reviewed the experience with breast cancer at Wilford Hll USAF Medical Center [Lockland air force base Texas, USA] for the years 1978 through 1988. A total of 868 cases were identified in the Wilford Hall Tumor Registry; overall 5-year and 10-year survivals were 63% and 39%, respectively. Infiltrating ductal carcinoma represented the principal histologic category. The other predominant variants included invasive lobular carcinoma, lobular carcinoma in situ, and ductal carcinoma in situ. Until recently, most of these patients (90%) had modified radical mastectomy as their definitive surgical therapy, with chemotherapy reserved primarily for patients with advanced disease.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE DIFFICULT CHOICE OF SURGICAL PROCEDURES FOR BREAST CANCER PROPHYLAXIS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	NATURAL HISTORY OF IN SITU BREAST CANCER IN A DEFINED POPULATION	The entire experience of in situ breast cancer in Alberta from 1953 to 1984 was examined. Of 243 patients coded, 226 were available for review by a panel of three pathologists. In 149 cases the diagnosis of in situ disease was confirmed. One hundred and eight patients had 109 ductal carcinomas in situ, 38 patients had lobular carcinomas in situ, with 3 patients having both. A multitude of treatments was used, ranging from local excision to radical mastectomy. Survival at a mean of 6 years follow-up was equal in all groups, with only two patients with a confirmed diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ dying from clinically suspected systemic disease. In patients treated by local excision, ipsilateral cancers were seen in 12% of ductal carcinoma in situ patients who had local excision and 13% of patients with lobular carcinoma in situ. Contralateral metachronous invasive cancers were seen in 6% of ductal carcinoma in situ patients and 3% of lobular carcinoma in situ patients. No lymph node involvement was seen in any of these patients, either with prophylactic dissection or in follow-up. The conclusion reached was that both in situ lesions are similar in their clinical course. Lymph node dissection is not necessary. Pathologic review is critical for accurate studies, with a change in diagnosis of 36% of diagnoses. Treatment does not appear to affect prognosis. The most appropriate treatment needs to be determined in prospective randomized trials.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	RAS C-MYC AND C-ERBB-2 ONCOPROTEINS IN HUMAN BREAST CANCER	The expression of ras, c-myc and c-erbB-2 oncoproteins in 100 human (73 ductal and 27 lobular) breast carcinomas has been examined using an immunohistochemical analysis. The monoclonal antibody Y13 259 has been used for the ras p21, the monoclonal antibody Myc1-9E10 for the c-myc p62 and the polyclonal antibody pAb1 (from Triton Bioscience Inc.) for the c-erbB-2 p185 oncoproteins. The following conclusions can be drawn from the analysis: Of the 100 breast carcinoma cases studied only 14 did not express any of the three oncogenes. The remaining 86 were positive for one or more of the three oncoproteins. Ductal carcinomas expressed oncoproteins in 92% of the cases (67/73), whereas lobular carcinomas expressed them in 70% of the cases (19/27). The most frequently expressed was c-myc p62 in 70% of cases followed by ras p21, 55% and c-erbB-2, 35%. Elevated expression of ras, myc or erbB-2 oncogenes did not correlate with the presence of metastasis in auxiliary lymph nodes, the numbers of infiltrated lymph nodes the grade of the tumor or hormone status. However, there appears to be a correlation between increased ras staining intensity and patient's age, below 50 years.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PATHOLOGY FOLLOW-UP OF POSITIVE MAMMOGRAMS IN THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY ACS 1987 TEXAS BREAST SCREENING PROJECT TBSP		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	AN ULTRASTRUCTURAL STUDY OF BENIGN AND MALIGNANT BREAST EPITHELIAL CELLS A SEARCH FOR TONOFILAMENTS	310 breast lesions were examined by electron microscopy. Tonofilaments were demonstrated in excretory epithelial cells of infiltrating ductal carcinoma (29%), infiltrating lobular carcinomas (27%), fibrocystic disease (18%) and in the normal breast (12%). Tonofilaments were also present in uncommon breast carcinomas, such as mucinous, papillary and medullary carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	OPIOID PEPTIDES IN HUMAN BREAST CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	TUMORS IN ICELAND 10. MALIGNANT TUMORS OF THE FEMALE BREAST	The Icelandic Cancer Registry has records of 1,720 cases of malignant tumours of the female breast diagnosed in 1,659 patients in the 30-year period 1955 - 1984. Of these, 1,658 tumours were invasive. Sufficient histological material existed for 1,666 malignant tumours to make it possible to classify them according to the criteria published by the WHO. The most frequent histological type was Ductal carcinoma: 1,064 neoplasms, or 64%. Second in frequency was Lobular carcinoma: 174 neoplasms, or 10%; third was Mucinous carcinoma: 115 neoplasms, or 7%; and fourth in frequency was Medullary carcinoma: 69 neoplasms, or 4%. The incidence of carcinoma of the breast increased by 74% from 37.0 per 100,000 per annum in 1955 - 59 to 64.4 per 100,000 in 1980 - 84. This increase in incidence affected all morphological types, but Lobular and Mucinous more than Ductal and Medullary. The survival times have improved with time. Unilateral tumours were 710 in right and 837 in the left breast. Both breasts were involved 167 times (106 patients), and in 6 patients the side was not recorded. A second primary was more likely to develop when the first one was in the right breast. This study of malignant tumours of the breast is the tenth in a series of investigations into histological classification of tumours occurring in Iceland.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MAMMOGRAPHY AND ULTRASOUND IN THE DIAGNOSIS OF CLINICALLY OCCULT MAMMARY CARCINOMA		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BONE TISSUE RESPONSES TO METASTATIC BREAST CARCINOMA		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ESTROGEN RECEPTORS IN BREAST CANCER RELATIONSHIP TO AGE MENSTRUAL STATUS AND HISTOLOGICAL TYPE	501 primary breast carcinoma samples were assayed for estrogen receptor (ER) by the dextrancoated charcoal method. ER values were considered positive ( + ) when equal or higher than 10 fmoles/mg protein. ER values ranged from 0 to 2565 fmoles/mg protein. Patients with ER + were 62 per cent. ER + neoplasias average 194 and S.E. .+-. 21 fmoles/mg protein. ER + samples in premenopausal patients were 52% and ER values 68 .+-. 8 fmoles/mg protein while in postmenopausal patients 70% ER + was obtained and ER values 256 .+-. 31 fmoles/mg protein. Mann Whitney U test showed p < 0.01. When ER + values were grouped according to the age statistical differences were found between decades fourth and seventh (p < 0.01) and between fifth and seventh p = 0.02. Infiltrating ductal carcinoma (NOS) and lobular carcinoma show ER values and S.E. of 141 .+-. 19 and 70 .+-. 15 fmoles/mg protein respectively. Statistical assessment shows p = 0.05.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	RADIAL SCARS IN WOMEN WITH BREAST CANCER	In 84 consecutive autopsies of women with a clinical diagnosis of invasive breast cancer, radial scars were found in the contralateral breast in 35 cases (42%) by an extensive histopathologic method. Four women had radial scars on the ipsilateral side in the breast tissue available from the primary surgical procedure or at autopsy. One woman had an invasive breast cancer with morphologic features compatible with but not diagnostic of transition from a radial scar. Of the six radial scars with carcinoma in situ occurring in three women, three were of ductal and three of lobular type. In the remaining cases only radial scars with a benign appearance were found except for two with atypical hyperplasia. The frequency of radial scars was significantly higher in women with fibrocystic disease (55%) compared to women without (24%). Contralateral primary invasive and in situ breast cancer occurred in 68%. No difference in the frequency of radial scars in women with and without breast cancer was found and radial scars were not associated with any specific type of breast cancer. Our findings do not indicate a higher malignant potential of radial scars than of fibrocystic disease. It is suggested that only radial scars containing high-risk epithelial changes such as atypical hyperplasia and carcinoma in situ are associated with an increased risk of subsequent breast cancer development.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	17-BETA ESTRADIOL MEDIATES GLYCOSYLATION OF HUMAN BREAST CARCINOMA GROWTH FACTOR RECEPTOR BCAGF-R		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	RESULTS OF CONSERVATIVE SURGERY AND RADIATION THERAPY FOR MULTIPLE SYNCHRONOUS CANCERS OF ONE BREAST		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE RELATIONSHIP OF HISTOLOGICAL TYPE TO SURVIVAL AND ESTROGEN RECEPTOR STATUS IN PRIMARY OPERABLE BREAST CARCINOMA		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	DIAGNOSTIC PROBLEMS IN BREAST PATHOLOGY THE BENEFIT OF ULTRASTRUCTURAL AND IMMUNOCYTOCHEMICAL ANALYSIS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS OF ESTROGEN AND PROGESTERONE RECEPTOR ASSAYS PERFORMED IN A COMMUNITY HOSPITAL	Approximately 1,000 assays for estrogen receptor (ER) in primary human breast tumors have been performed at St. Joseph's Hospital [Tampa, Florida, USA], over a period of seven years; 700 of these included assays for progesterone receptor (PR). Based on the method of analysis (dextran-coated charcoal) and criteria for a positive result used for this survey, 80 percent of the primary tumours were ER-positive and 56 percent were PR-positive. In those cases where both assays were performed, 47.4 percent were ER-positive, PR-positive; 19.8 percent were ER-positive, PR-negative; 6.2 percent were ER-negative, PR-positive; and 26.6 percent were ER-negative, PR-negative. The mean concentration of ER increased with the advancing age of the patient; essentially the same relationship was observed for PR. The concentration of ER and PR was not directly dependent upon the degree of cellularity of the tumor. Lobular carcinoma and the mixed types containing ductal and lobular elements had the highest frequency of being positive for both steroid receptors, while medullary and papillary carcinomas were lowest. Three hundred and twenty-two cases had follow-up studies and were examined on the basis of the available information in the files of St. Joseph's Hospital Tumor Registry. A higher survival rate in patients with both ER and PR positivity became evident. In a community hospital setting, our data confirm the usefulness of estrogen and progesterone receptor assays in decisions of clinical management and considerations of prognosis in patients with mammary carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ULTRASTRUCTURE AND ELECTRON MICROSCOPIC CLASSIFICATION OF NONINVASIVE AND INVASIVE MAMMARY CARCINOMAS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE RELATION BETWEEN PROLIFERATION AND REGRESSION IN THE BREAST WITH SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CELL KINETICS OF HISTOLOGIC VARIANTS OF IN-SITU BREAST CARCINOMA	A thymidine labeling study of cell kinetics of 61 in situ breast carcinomas showed relationships between histological characteristics and kinetics. The thymidine labeling index (TLI) was significantly lower in cribriform-paillary intraductal carcinoma (median 1.30%, geometric mean 1.18%, mean 1.83 .+-. 0.45%) and lobular carcinoma in situ (median 1.43%, geometric mean 1.12%, mean 1.63 .+-. 0.46%) than in comedo intraductal carcinoma (median 4.40%, geometric mean 3.74%, mean 5.15 .+-. 0.86%). The results for solid intraductal carcinoma, which is a less well defined and more heterogeneous entity, were intermediate (median 2.45%, geometric mean 2.40%, mean 3.32 .+-. 0.80%). When invasive carcinoma was also available for kinetic study, the TLI of in situ and invasive components were usually similar (r = 0.66). The data indicate that the TLI usually does not change during the transition from in situ to invasive carcinoma. Cribriform-papillary intraduct carcinoma is a slowly proliferating entity that gives rise to slowly proliferating invasive carcinomas with relatively high levels of estrogen and progesterone receptors. Lobular carcinoma in situ similarly has low proliferative rates and gives rise to slowly proliferating invasive carcinomas. Intraductal comedocarcinoma has relatively high proliferative rates and gives rise to invasive carcinomas with high proliferative rates that often are receptor-negative. Nine of the 11 in situ carcinomas that were associated with invasive tumor and subsequent local recurrence or metastasis had TLIs above the median, and seven were comedo type with high TLIs. Our observations from thymidine labeling are consistent with a viewpoint regarding cribriform-papillary intraductal carcinoma as relatively bland, and comedo intraductal carcinoma as a distinctly more dangerous entity. Solid intraductal carcinoma seems to resemble cribriform-papillary more closely than comedo intraductal carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	IMMUNOHISTOCHEMICAL STUDY ON CARCINOEMBRYONIC ANTIGEN LACTALBUMIN LACTOFERRIN ACTIN MYOSIN AND S100 PROTEIN IN MAMMARY GLAND CARCINOMA		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	METAPLASIAS AND MALIGNANT TRANSFORMATIONS IN HAMARTOMAS OF THE BREAST		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CORRELATION OF ESTROGEN AND PROGESTERONE RECEPTOR LEVELS WITH HISTOLOGY AND ELASTOSIS IN HUMAN MAMMARY CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HISTO PATHOLOGICAL FEATURES AND THEIR ASSOCIATION WITH STEROID RECEPTORS IN WOMEN WITH BREAST CANCER IN FUKUOKA JAPAN	In Fukuoka, Japan, infiltrating duct carcinoma predominated among 213 breast cancer cases, age 45-74. Lobular and medullary carcinomas were infrequent. About 33% of the women had marked productive fibrosis, based on the UICC [International Union Against Cancer] code type. Both rough margin and productive fibrosis of the cancer increased with age of the patients. Most of accompanying hyperplastic lesions decreased with age. The difference was significant for cystic formation between 10-yr age groups of 45-54 and 55-64 (.chi.2 = 6.61, P < 0.02). Hormone receptors of 115 of the cases were independently measured and characterized according to histologic patterns manifesting host reaction (stromal cell infiltration and lymph node histiocytosis). Positive estrogen receptors were more frequent among ductal carcinomas with slight or no cellular reaction than those with extensive cellular reaction. The same pattern was also present for progesterone and androgen receptors. The extent of sinus histiocytosis in lymph nodes without metastasis was also inversely correlated with the presence of these hormone receptors. The correlation was significant for androgen receptor (.chi.2 = 5.31, P < 0.05). Positive estrogen receptor was more common among ductal carcinomas with prominent fibrosis than among those with minimal fibrosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ENVIRONMENT OF INVASIVE BREAST CARCINOMAS PATHOLOGICAL AND EPIDEMIOLOGICAL STUDY	In a retrospective study, different types were observed among 180 [human] breast invasive carcinomas, their environment and their epidemiology. Tumors consisted in 158 invasive ductal carcinomas, 11 invasive lobular carcinomas and 11 special forms. The benign environment was divided in 3 groups: no epithelial lesion (1/5 cases), mastose simple (3/5) (elementary lesions more or less associated, exceptionaly isolated, diffuse or focal), the last, 1/5, corresponded to a mastose complex defined as the significant association of the same elementary lesions (minimum 3-4), diffuse, with some degree of dysplasia and always an intraductal hyperplasia, of any type. The mastose complex group (particularly intraductal hyperplasia) is discussed in relation to cancer, a lobular origin for precancerous lesions, and individualization of epidemiological factors in relations to development of malignant tumors.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PREGNANCY-SPECIFIC BETA-1 GLYCOPROTEIN SP-1 IN BREAST CARCINOMA PATHOLOGIC AND CLINICAL CONSIDERATIONS	Ectopic production of placental proteins by a variety of nontrophoblastic epithelial tumors is well recognized. Pregnancy-specific .beta.-1 glycoprotein (SP-1), a recently described placental protein, was detected both in the serum and tumors of patients with breast carcinoma. The significance of SP-1 in breast carcinoma was assessed by staining 139 cases of primary breast carcinoma for SP-1 using the immunoperoxidase technique. Overall, 55 (40%) of breast cancers were positive for SP-1; focal positivity was also noted in normal breast epithelium and fibrocystic disease. Both intraductal (32%) and infiltrating duct (43%) carcinomas were more often positive than either in situ (5%) or infiltrating (26%) lobular carcinomas. SP-1 positivity in tumors of infiltrating duct morphology < 3 cm in diameter, correlated highly (P < 0.01) with the presence of axillary lymph node metastases. The presence of SP-1 in normal breast epithelium and fibrocystic disease and the low rate of positivity in lobular carcinoma casts doubt on the usefulness of SP-1 as a tumor marker. Immunopositivity for SP-1 in small infiltrating duct carcinomas may be an indicator of poor prognosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MINIMAL BREAST CANCER AN UPDATE		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	STAGING AND TREATMENT OF CLINICALLY OCCULT BREAST CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CORRELATIONS BETWEEN HISTOLOGIC TYPE OF CLINICAL BREAST CANCER AND PHYSIOPATHOLOGIC PROFILE OF THE MAMMARY GLANDULAR TREE	The relationships between cancer histotype and characters of the mammary glandular tree were studied in 100 human breasts removed for clinical cancer by radical mastectomy. The group of invasive ductal carcinomas, including 78 cases, was subclassified in not otherwise specified (53 cases), with intraductal (19 cases), and with tubular component (6 cases). The other cancer histotypes were invasive lobular carcinoma (9 cases), medullary carcinoma (7 cases), mucinous carcinoma (4 cases), and papillary carcinoma (2 cases). The pattern of the mammary glandular tree was atrophic (67 cases) or adenosic, i.e., rich in mammary lobules (33 cases), but mammary lobules (normal, paranormal, atypical, or persistent in otherwise atrophic breasts) were present in 83% of the cases. A significant prevalence of not otherwise specified cancer (.chi.2 = 10.20; P < 0.01) was found in atrophic breasts (64%) and, even more, in breasts without lobules (76%). By contrast, intraductal component, tubular component, invasive lobular, and medullay cancers were, with two single exceptions, only in breasts with lobules, and this concentration was also significant (.chi.2 = 7.26; P < 0.01). Breast cancer histotype is influenced by, or related to, the surrounding microenvironment, i.e., the pattern of the mammary glandular tree.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	EFFECT OF DIGOXIN ON DNA SYNTHESIS AND CELL VIABILITY IN HUMAN BREAST TUMOR TISSUE IN ORGAN CULTURE	Ten biopsy specimens of primary breast tumors from 10 patients were classified histopathologically into 8 ductal carcinomas and 2 lobular carcinomas. Portions of tumor of .apprx. 1 mm3 were cultured in buffered Medium 199 for 48 h with or without addition of digoxin at concentratoins from 1-2 ng/ml to 10-20 .mu.g/ml of culture medium. Measurement of DNA synthesis by [3H]-thymidine incorporation, DNA analysis and histological examination showed that 5 biopsy specimens demonstrated epithelial cell survival in culture. These cultures were significantly (P < 0.001) affected by digoxin at concentrations > 10-20 ng/ml, with suppression of [3H]-thymidine incorporation and reduced epithelial cell viability. Parallel studies on 5 biopsy specimens of DMBA[dimethylbenzanthracene]-induced rat mammary carcinomas showed no effects of digoxin up to 10 .mu.g/ml of culture medium. These studies indicate the possibility of this class of drug being of use in growth suppression of breast tumors.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CORRELATION OF ESTROGEN AND PROGESTERONE RECEPTOR STATUS WITH ULTRASTRUCTURAL DIFFERENTIATION IN BREAST TUMORS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BREAST ASPIRATION		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	AMOUNT AND DISTRIBUTION OF SOLID AND FATTY TISSUES IN THE FEMALE BREAST AND THEIR RELATIONSHIP TO CARCINOMA	A study based on 112 consecutive [human] mastectomy specimens with carcinoma is presented. Breasts were grossly divided into 3 basic types: solid, when showing a sizable cone of solid tissue (mammary tissue and fibrous stroma), fatty when almost completely replaced by fat, and intermediary types Ia and Ib. These types apparently represent stages of an evolutionary process involving the anatomical structure of the breast during life. Mammary alterations gradually lead to lobular atrophy. Generalized lobular atrophy characterizes mainly fatty breasts. Lesions of fibrocystic disease are frequent in breasts of all types. In all 3 types of breast carcinomas were more frequently located in the outer portion of the breast. Rare locations of carcinomas are associated with the type of breast: a central location is more frequent in fatty, an inner location in intermediary and a diffuse in solid breasts. In fatty breasts irregular tumors are common, while in solid breasts tumors without clear borders appear to develop. Multicentric carcinomas were much more frequent in solid breasts than in the other types of breasts. Most multicentric carcinomas are accompanied by multicentric carcinoma in situ. Infiltrative lobular and mixed (lobular-ductal) carcinomas are accompanied by lobular carcinoma in situ, lobular cancerization or both. In infiltrative ductal and the special types of carcinomas, the histology of carcinoma in situ differs according to whether or not the infiltrative tumor is single or multicentric. The difference concerns the complete lack of lobular cancerization from cases with single infiltrative tumors.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HORMONE RECEPTOR LEVELS AND ASPIRATION CYTOLOGY IN CANCER OF THE BREAST		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	IMPORTANCE OF MASTALGIA IN OPERABLE BREAST CANCER	The importance of pain as a presenting symptom of breast cancer was assessed in a series of 240 patients with operable breast cancer over 4 yr. From an analysis of the case histories of 36 patients, the diagnosis was difficult in 1/4 of the cancers. This is explained by the high incidence of subclinical and lobular carcinoma in the group. Cancer must be seriously considered as a diagnosis in patients presenting with well-localized breast pain of recent onset. These patients should be followed for at least 1 yr after the onset of the pain before cancer is confidently excluded.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	EPIDEMIOLOGY OF BREAST CARCINOMA 3. RELATIONSHIP OF FAMILY HISTORY TO TUMOR TYPE	Previous breast carcinoma in at least 1 female relative was reported by 31% of 1024 women treated consecutively for breast carcinoma. Eighty (7.9%) of their mothers had had breast cancer. Maternal breast cancer was significantly (P < 0.006) more frequent among women with medullary carcinoma than those with other tumor types and among those who were pre- or perimenopausal at diagnosis (P < 0.001). Among the 727 patients who had 1 or more sisters, 12% had a sister who had been treated for breast cancer. The highest frequency of carcinoma in at least 1 sister occurred in patients with lobular carcinoma while the medullary carcinoma group had the least number of patients with an affected sister (P < 0.03). Occurrence of breast cancer in a sister was almost twice as common in patients who were postmenopausal at diagnosis (P < 0.005) than in premenopausal patients. When stratified by histologic type, the mean age at diagnosis of the patients did not differ appreciably from the age at diagnosis of their sisters. Detailed analyses of histologic type and other more distant familial relationships were also obtained but were considered to be less reliable because of problems in ascertainment and there were fewer affected relatives. No single histologic type of carcinoma was consistently linked to a disproportionately high or low frequency of carcinoma in all classes of relatives. Studies of family history limited to information available when the patient is first treated may present an incomplete picture of familial aggregation. Further follow-up after diagnosis is needed to obtain a more reliable measure of the extent to which relatives are affected by breast cancer and patterns of family distribution associated with specific tumor types.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PEROXIDASE ACTIVITY IN HUMAN BREAST CARCINOMAS CORRELATION WITH HISTOLOGICAL AND BIOCHEMICAL PARAMETERS	Peroxidase activity was found in 68% of 56 human breast carcinomas. Median activity was higher in ductal carcinomas than in tumors with lobular components. Activity did not correlate with tumor grade or stage, or the presence or absence of axillary node involvement. Activity, however, correlated with tumor cellularity, lymphocyte infiltration levels, total protein and alkaline phosphatase levels. Variation in peroxidase activity in human breast tumors is at least in part due to lymphocyte infiltration. This contamination of breast tumors with lymphocytes may explain the lack of correlation between estradiol receptor levels and peroxidase activity.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CARCINOID TUMORS OF THE BREAST THE MORPHOLOGICAL SERUM OF ARGYROPHIL CARCINOMAS	Fourteen carcinoid tumors of the human breast are described. They are separable into 5 with and 9 without intracellular mucin. All the tumors are argyrophil, but none is argentaffin. Four tumors studied ultrastructurally contain dense-core granules. Argyrophil carcinomas represent the endocrine analogs of ductal carcinoma in situ, of invasive ductal carcinoma and probably of lobular carcinoma also. Current views vary between the one that the so-called carcinoid is a rare and totally distinct entity to the view, at the other extreme, that it is a very common variant of conventional breast cancer. An intermediate view is justified: argyrophil carcinomas constitute about 5% of breast carcinomas and some varieties at least have non-argyrophil analogs. Factors influencing the prognosis in individual cases are discussed. Argyrophil carcinomas of the breast form a tumor spectrum with a wide range of morphological and histochemical appearances and a variable prognosis.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ANTIBODIES TO INTERMEDIATE FILAMENT PROTEINS AS MOLECULAR MARKERS IN CLINICAL TUMOR PATHOLOGY DIFFERENTIATION OF CARCINOMAS BY THEIR REACTION WITH DIFFERENT CYTO KERATIN ANTIBODIES	Antibodies to human and bovine epidermal prekeratin and antibodies to mouse liver cytokeratin component D (MW 49,000) were applied in indirect immunofluorescence microscopy on sections of human tumors of mammary gland and liver. In non-neoplastic mammary gland all epithelial cells were stained with these antibodies. In pre-invasive and invasive ductal and lobular carcinomas a cell population was observed which was not significantly stained with antibodies to epidermal prekeratin but did strongly react with antibodies to liver cytokeratin D. In the liver, the antibodies to epidermal prekeratin and those directed against liver cytokeratin D strongly decorated bile duct epithelia. Significant staining of the hepatocytes was only achieved with antibodies to liver cytokeratin D. This different staining reaction was maintained in liver tumors of hepatocellular and cholangiocellular origin. Antibodies to vimentin stained mesenchymal cells and tumors of mesenchymal derivation but reacted not significantly with any of the epithelial and carcinoma cells examined. The difference is of practical importance for the discrimination between anaplastic carcinomas and sarcomas of unknown origin. Cytokeratin could also be detected by antibody staining using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique in formaldehyde-fixed and paraffin-embedded material of skin, gastrointestinal, respiratory, urinary and genital tract and various glands, liver and kidney. Examples of positive reactions were shown in a squamous cell carcinoma, a basalioma and a pleomorphic adenoma of the parotis. The immunohistochemical analysis of intermediate filament proteins has diagnostic potential in clinical pathology and may help to elucidate histogenesis and differentiation of tumors and possibly also prognosis of tumor growth. Antibodies recognizing different subsets of proteins of the cytokeratin family can be used to distinguish between different types of carcinomas.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE CYTOLOGIC PRESENTATION OF BREAST CARCINOMA IN CEREBRO SPINAL FLUID		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A CLINICO PATHOLOGIC STUDY OF INTERMEDIATE GROUP MIXED CARCINOMA IN A WIDE SENSE OF CERVICAL CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PREDICTORS OF RECURRENCE IN STAGE I T-1N-0M-0 BREAST CARCINOMA	A 10 yr follow-up study of 382 women with stage I (T1N0M0) breast carcinoma revealed recurrence and/or death due to cancer in 16% of the patients. Among 134 patients (35%) with a primary tumor 1.0 cm or less in diameter (group A), 7% had recurrences and 5% died of breast carcinoma. Recurrences were observed in 21% of the 248 women with a tumor 1.1-2.0 cm in diameter (group B) and 15% died of disease. These differences in recurrence and mortality rates were statistically significant. All recurrences were due to infiltrating duct or lobular carcinoma, which accounted for 91% of the 382 carcinomas. Most strongly linked to recurrence was the finding of tumor emboli in lymphatics of the breast. This was found in 23 group B patients and 10 of them (43%) died of disease. No recurrences were observed among the 7 group A patients with lymphatic emboli. Other features associated with a significantly increased risk of recurrence were poorly differentiated carcinoma, marked lymphoid reaction to tumor and menarche before age 12 yr or after age 14 yr. No combination of variables proved to identify a subset of patients with an especially increased or low risk of recurrence. Stage I patients with lymphatic tumor emboli in the breast surrounding a carcinoma 1.1-2.0 cm in diameter have a sufficient risk for recurrence to warrant consideration of adjuvant systemic therapy. A very low risk of recurrence was observed for the following: any tumor 1.0 cm or smaller; and tubular, medullary or colloid carcinoma up to 2.0 cm.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	RECENT PROGRESS IN THE HISTOLOGICAL TYPING OF HUMAN BREAST TUMORS	Recently new concepts in the histological typing of human mammary carcinomas were proposed. The basic subdivision into the 2 major categories, ductal and lobular carcinomas, remains valid. Histological variants were recognized in lobular carcinomas: invasive carcinoma without an in situ component and solid and signet-ring cell forms. Special types of duct carcinoma were defined with more accuracy: scirrhous, tubular and secretory forms. The validity of the diagnosis of so-called apocrine carcinoma and the place of mucus-secreting tumors in the histologic classification are discussed.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE SIMULTANEOUS OCCURRENCE OF CYTOPLASMIC RECEPTORS FOR STEROID HORMONES IN NORMAL AND PATHOLOGICAL FEMALE BREAST TISSUES		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HISTOLOGICAL AND EPIDEMIOLOGICAL FEATURES OF BREAST CANCER IN DIFFERENT RELIGIOUS GROUPS IN GREATER BOMBAY INDIA	The histologic and epidemiologic features of breast cancer in women from various religious groups of Greater Bombay were studied. The crude and age-adjusted incidence rates are seen to be the highest in the Parsi community followed by the Christian, Moselm and Hindu groups. In all the religious groups, an increase in incidence of breast cancer is first seen in the 3rd decade. This is followed by a sharp increase up to the age of 50-54 leading to a slight drop, and then a consistent but slower rise in the older ages. The high risk of developing this cancer in Parsi women as compared with the Christian, Moslem and Hindu experience may be due to a higher proportion of Parsi women remaining unmarried, their higher age at marriage, lower age at 1st pregnancy, broad spacing of pregnancies and fewer numbers of pregnancies. The distribution according to histologic types of breast cancer in India is characterized by a high frequency of infiltrating duct carcinoma. Medullary, lobular and squamous cell carcinoma were typical histological varieties of the older age groups, whereas ductal carcinoma was encountered mostly in premenopausal women.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	INTRA DUCTAL CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST FOLLOW-UP AFTER BIOPSY ONLY		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HISTOCHEMICAL DEMONSTRATION OF ESTROGEN RECEPTORS IN CANCER OF THE BREAST	Demonstration of estrogen receptors (ER) in breast cancer has hitherto been based on biochemical methods. A histochemical method of demonstrating ER is presented. The method was employed in the material of 46 cases of breast cancer. Of these, 69.9% were estrogen receptor positive (ER+). More numerous estrogen receptor negative (ER-) cases of carcinoma were found in the group of premenopausal/menopausal women than in the post-menopausal women but the difference was not significant. The distribution of ER+ and ER- carcinomas among the infiltrating ductal carcinomas showed a tendency towards more numerous ER- carcinomas among the least differentiated tumors and 6 of the 7 infiltrating lobular carcinomas were ER+. If ER+ carcinomas are defined as those with a receptor content of > 10 fmol/mg protein and in histochemical investigations as those with > 10% fluorescent cells, frequencies of ER+ and ER- carcinomas were found of those found to be similar in 2 previous histochemical materials and in an extensive material investigated biochemically. Theoretical aspects of histochemical demonstration of estrogen receptors are discussed. Although unexplained conditions still exist concerning the relationship between the receptors demonstrated histochemically and those demonstrated biochemically, histochemical demonstration of estrogen receptors offers a possibility for supplementing biochemical demonstration.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MEDICINAL PATHO MORPHOLOGY OF BREAST CANCER	Histology was performed on removed mammary glands of 79 patients with locally disseminated mammary gland carcinoma. A course of polychemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, methotrexate, vincristine, cyclophosphane and hormonal treatment including ovariectomy followed by corticosteroid therapy was given. Signs of pathomorphosis were revealed in 70 patients. The patients were classified into 4 groups depending on the degree of pathomorphosis intensity. In most cases the latter corresponded to the intensity of the clinical effect. No association could be established between the degree of pathomorphosis and that of tumor dissemination. Specific histological forms of cancer (mucinous carcinoma, lobular carcinoma) and highly differentiated forms (glandular carcinoma, scirrhous) are more resistant to the effect of antitumor drugs.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ESTROGEN RECEPTOR CONCENTRATIONS IN 269 CASES OF HISTOLOGICALLY CLASSIFIED HUMAN BREAST CANCER	A histological review of 264 female primary breast cancers analyzed for estrogen receptor protein (ER) is provided. Five cases of male breast cancer, all of which bound estradiol specifically, are described. Generally the ER concentrations were lower in the tumors of premenopausal women than in those of postmenopausal women. Three types of cancer with specific morphological features had ER concentrations that differed significantly from the other types of cancer. Medullary and comedocarcinoma had very low and papillary carcinoma very high levels of ER. No obvious trend in ER concentration was found in unspecified ductal carcinoma, colloid carcinoma or lobular carcinoma. A positive correlation was demonstrated between ER content and degree of differentiation in ductal carcinoma. Cancer with lymphoid infiltration generally showed low ER levels.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MUCIN VACUOLES IN ATYPICAL LOBULAR PROLIFERATIONS OF HUMAN BREAST		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CARCINOMAS ARISING IN FIBRO ADENOMAS 2 CASES AND A REVIEW OF THE LITERATURE		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	FINE NEEDLE ASPIRATION BIOPSY OF BREAST CARCINOMA CYTOLOGIC HISTOLOGICAL CORRELATION	The correlations between the cytological and histological pictures of breast carcinomas were examined. The analysis covered 218 [human] cases treated by simple and radical mastectomy. The material for cytologic studies was obtained by fine needle aspiration biopsy. To determine the histological type of the cancer on the basis of smears, the histological and cytologic pictures were compared in each case. Histological sections and smears were stained with hematoxilin and eosin. Relying on cytological smear, it is possible to diagnose infiltrating ductal carcinoma, mucinous carcinoma, medullary carcinoma, lobular carcinoma, papillary carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. The histological estimation of the cancer malignancy degree according to Bloom's classification is feasible in 75% of cases of infiltrating duct carcinoma.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	NONINVASIVE BREAST CARCINOMA FREQUENCY OF UNSUSPECTED INVASION AND IMPLICATIONS FOR TREATMENT	Biopsies (129) from 121 patients with a frozen or paraffin section diagnosis of noninvasive breast carcinoma were studied. Bilateral noninvasive carcinoma was found in 8 women and 7 biopsies reported as intraductal on frozen section contained invasive carcinoma on paraffin section. Of the remaining 122 biopsies proven to have noninvasive carcinoma on paraffin section, 39 (34%) were reported at frozen section as noninvasive carcinoma, 24 (20%) as atypical and 59 (48%) as benign. Intraductal carcinoma (IDC) was identified more often at frozen section (45%) than was lobular carcinoma in situ [LCIS] (19%). Among 41 patients who had bilateral carcinoma with invasive disease in 1 breast, 76% of contralateral noninvasive carcinoma was LCIS. After excisional biopsy, carcinoma was found in 56% of 103 mastectomy specimens, including invasive carcinoma in 6% of breasts with IDC and 4% with LCIS. Residual noninvasive carcinoma was usually of the same type found at biopsy (90% IDC and 88% LCIS) and involved quadrants other than the biopsy site in 33% with IDC and in 80% with LCIS. When the frozen or paraffin section diagnosis of a generous excisional biopsy was noninvasive breast carcinoma, there was a substantial risk that foci of the same type of noninvasive carcinoma were also present in other quadrants. Occult foci of invasive carcinoma were quite infrequent and the risk of axillary metastases was very low. Adequate treatment for noninvasive carcinoma requires elimination of all residual foci of noninvasive disease which can best be accomplished by total mastectomy. To insure removal of the axillary extension of the breast and for staging, in continuity dissection of the lowest axillary lymph nodes is also prudent.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	FAILURE OF LEUKOCYTE ADHERENCE INHIBITION ASSAYS TO DISCRIMINATE BETWEEN BENIGN AND MALIGNANT BREAST DISEASES		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CORRELATIVE STUDIES ON THE PRESENCE OF ESTROGEN AND PROLACTIN RECEPTORS AND HISTOLOGY IN HUMAN BREAST CARCINOMAS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BREAST RECONSTRUCTION AFTER STAGE ADJUSTED SURGERY OF NEOPLASTIC DISEASE		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ELASTOSIS AND OTHER STROMAL REACTIONS IN BENIGN AND MALIGNANT BREAST TISSUE AN ULTRASTRUCTURAL STUDY	The stroma and stromal reaction in normal breast, benign and malignant [human] breast tissue was studied by EM. Elastosis is the main stromal response in infiltrating duct and lobular carcinomas. Medullary carcinoma elicits no significant elastosis but intraductal carcinoma has significant local elastosis. Benign conditions such as fibroadenoma and sclerosing adenosis produced no significant elastosis. The high number of elastic fibers and the high microfibril:elastin ratio indicate that most of the elastic fibers are recently secreted, probably by fibroblasts and myofibroblasts. The factors stimulating the increased production of elastic fibers and the prognostic significance of elastosis remain unclear.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CARCINOMA IN-SITU OF THE BREAST	A series of 87 cases of carcinoma in situ of the breast was reviewed. In 49 cases in which lobular carcinoma in situ was shown on biopsy, 3 patients had invasive carcinoma in subsequent mastectomy. All 3 of these cases were in a group of 14 patients shown to have bilateral lobular carcinoma in situ on biopsy. In a group of 38 patients with intraductal carcinoma on biopsy, 7 had invasive carcinoma in subsequent mastectomies. Lymph node metastases were found in 1 patient in the lobular group and 4 patients in the intraductal group. Three patients in the intraductal group died of cancer. None in the lobular group died of cancer.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	HISTOLOGIC SPECIFICITY OF THE EFFECT OF AGE AT BIRTH OF 1ST CHILD ON BREAST CANCER RISK	Slides of 531 breast cancers from Glamorgan, Wales, were classified according to the presence or absence of each of 3 histologic characteristics: stromal infiltration by linear strands of tumor cells, areas of intraductal carcinoma and areas of lobular carcinoma in situ. The proportion of tumors with each of these characteristics was positively associated with age at 1st child-birth. Increasing age at 1st birth had a strong positive effect on the incidence risk of tumors with any of these features, but only a small effect on risk of tumors with none. For parous women, the rate of breast cancer with or without linear strands, with or without areas of intraductal cancer and without areas of lobular carcinoma in situ was lower than for nulliparous women. Parity appeared not to reduce the risk of tumors with areas of lobular carcinoma in situ.	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	A COMPARATIVE STUDY OF TUMOR CELLS FROM METASTATIC CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST IN EFFUSIONS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MALE BREAST CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MAMMARY CANCER IN THE DOG A STUDY OF 120 CASES		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	INFERRING SIGNIFICANCE FROM ANATOMIC AND CLINICAL DATA ON CANCER OF THE BREAST A COMPUTER STATISTICAL ANALYSIS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BREAST CANCER PROGNOSTIC FACTORS AND CLINICAL EVALUATION		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	LIPID-RICH CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST A CLINICO PATHOLOGIC ANALYSIS OF 13 EXAMPLES		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	PATHOLOGY AND PROGNOSIS IN BREAST CANCER		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	MORPHOLOGY CYTO PHOTOMETRY AND CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF THE 3 MASTO CARCINOMAS GROWING IN-SITU COMEDO CARCINOMA LOBULAR IN-SITU CARCINOMA AND INTRA CYSTIC CARCINOMA		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BREAST CANCER AND ELASTOSIS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST DURING ESTROGEN REPLACEMENT THERAPY		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE EVALUATION OF SEX CHROMATIN AS A PROGNOSTIC FACTOR IN CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST A PRELIMINARY REPORT		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	BREAST CARCINOMA PRESENTING AS AN AXILLARY MASS		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	ULTRASTRUCTURE OF INTRA EPITHELIAL CARCINOMAS OF THE BREAST		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	THE HIGH RISK GROUP		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Diffuse infiltrating scirrhous carcinoma of the breast: Special consideration of the single-filing phenomenon	The phenomenon of single filing in carcinoma of the breast was demonstrated in 140 (3.2%) of 4320 patients seen at the Mayo Clinic between 1943 and 1957. The age of distribution, symptoms and signs, gross pathologic findings and size of the tumors did not show different features from .mammary carcinoma in general. Bilaterality was present in 15 patients (11%), which is a higher rate than in mammary carcinoma in general. Regional lymph nodes were metastatically involved in 51% of the group. Single filing is formed by desmoplastic strands of mostly medium-sized cells followed in frequency by small and large cells. Mitotic figures are rare. Single filing was found in connection with infiltrating or noninfiltrating lobular carcinomas in 21.2% and with areas of intraductal carcinomas in 36%. The prognostic outlook for patients without lymph node involvement in somewhat similar to that of patients having carcinoma of the breast in general; that for patients with positive lymph nodes is poor, with a 9% chance of 10-year survival. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Amhors	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	In situ lobular carcinoma: A prospective follow-up study indicating cumulative patient risks	In situ lobular carcinoma is a preinvasive form of breast cancer which if inadequately treated will frequently progress to infiltrative cancer. A follow-up study of 50 patients with in situ lobular carcinoma, treated in most instances by local excision, reveals the following subsequent cumulative risk of infiltration: 8% after five years, 15% after ten years, 27% after 15 years, and 35% after 20 years. After 23 years, the cumulative risk is thought to exceed 50%. In addition, the cumulative risk of cancer developing in the breasts contralateral to those in which in situ lobular carcinoma was found was 10% after ten years, 15% after 15 years, and 25% after 20 years. The cumulative risk of contralateral breast cancer after 22 years appears to exceed 30%. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Authors	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma of the female breast: Report of 73 cases	All slides from 1,436 cases of carcinoma of the breast seen at the George Washington University Hospital since April, 1948, were examined. Forty cases showing only in situ lobular carcioma are not included in this paper, 32 of these having been presented previously. In an initial survey of the material, 142 cases having terminal duct or lobular component or both were separated from 1,396 cases of carcinoma of the breast (10.2%). These cases were re-examined, and by rigid and stringent criteria, 73 cases representing "pure" infiltrating lobular carcinoma were established. This is probably the largest group of infiltrating lobular carcinomas reported to date, and represents about 5% of the cancers examined in this series. In 72 of these 73 cases, histologic evidence of "early," antecedent, in situ lobular carcinoma was found. Once invasion of breast stroma has taken place, the sequence is similar to that in the more frequent carcinomas of duct origin. Patterns of lobular carcinoma of the breast occur more frequently than previously supposed. Recommendations for treatment, depending on whether the tumor is non-infiltrating or infiltrating, are discussed. Additional cases of progression from in situ lobular to infiltrating lobular breast cancer are presented. Residual in situ lobular in 72 of 73 cases of "pure" infiltrating lobular carcinoma of the female breast indicates that they form a continuum. When diagnosed it should be treated promptly to forestall (where possible) the sequence of events reported in this paper. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Author	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	In situ lobular carcinoma of the breast	Thirteen patients with in-situ lobular carcinoma of the breast are reported. The follow-up is complete and includes one 24-year survivor. None of these patients has succumbed to breast carcinoma. The natural history, diagnosis, and recommended treatment of in-situ lobular carcinoma of the breast are discussed, stressing the following points. The diagnosis cannot be made grossly or by palpation, ft may be made tentatively on frozen section, but requires careful examination of permanent microscopic sections before definitive treatment is undertaken. In-situ lobular carcinoma is a true cancer. The literature contains 7 cases where invasive carcinoma developed after "preinvasive phases varying from "a few months" to 17 years. In-situ lobular carcinoma is multicentric and frequently bilateral. Combining our patients with those in the literature who had both breasts biopsied, 46% bilaterality is found. We currently recommend simple, mastectomy with contralateral "random biopsy" as treatment for in-situ lobular carcinoma of the breast. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Authors	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma of the breast	Lobular carcinoma of the breast, first described as a separate entity in 1941 by Foote and Stewart, represents an early stage in the development of mammary cancer. According to Urban, if diagnosed in its pre-invasive stage, lobular carcinoma carries a 100% cure rate following simple mastectomy and low axillary dissection. A review of the roentgenograms of 687 patients over an eleven year period with proven carcinoma of the breast was made in an effort to correlate diagnostic criteria of lobular carcinoma of the breast. Of the five patients presented here, one died three years after her second mastectomy for lobular carcinoma, and the other four patients have been followed for a period of eighteen months to ten years without recurrence. All our cases were diagnosed radiographically and proven by surgical exploration. The anatomical appearance and location of the lesions were found to correspond to the x-ray findings. The roentgen appearance of lobular carcinoma is that of an infiltrating mass lesion which varies in size, shape, and which may alter the architecture, shape, or density of a part or the entire breast. Lobular carcinoma is usually found in the breast of symptomatic middle-aged women with severe adenosis. The involved breast is often denser than the opposite breast and occasionally changed in shape (re versed sausage). Periodic roentgen studies performed every three to six months showing progression of any of the above findings are of great value in diagnosing lobular infiltrating carcinoma of the breast during its early invasive phase. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Author	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Induction of neoplasms in the thyroid gland of the rat by x-irradiation of the gland	The development of benign and malignant neoplasms was studied in thyroid glands of Long-Evans rats 2 years after either both lobes of the glands had been irradiated with 500, 1000, or 2000 r, or the right lobe alone had been irradiated with 1000 r. The degree of follicular atrophy and of nuclear pleomorphism observed in these irradiated glands varied with the dose of X-rays. Benign nodules or adenomas were observed in 30 of the 74 irradiated survivors. These lesions originated as foci of nodular regeneration and hyperplasia. Papillary and follicular thyroid carcinomas were found in 9 of the irradiated rats. Two of the 6 papillary carcinomas appeared to have originated in previously benign adenomas. Naturally occurring alveolar or lobular carcinomas had an incidence of 33% in normal control rats and of 22-45% in rats whose thyroids were irradiated withX-rays. These naturally occurring carcinomas were of low-grade malignancy and were unlike those induced by irradiation. Parathyroid hyperplasia and adenomas were observed frequently in control as well as in irradiated rats. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Authors	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Histo-pathological studies on the mammary tumors. II. The relation between mastopathia and mammary carcinoma	101 cases of mammary carcinoma were studied from the histopathological point of view. There were 28 papillary carcinomas, 23 cases of adenocar-cinoma scirrhosum, 17 medullary cardinomas, 12 lobular carcinomas, 8 squamous cell carcinomas, 7 comedo carcinomas, 3 colloid carcinomas, 2 sweat gland carcinomas, and one case of Paget's disease. In 38% of the cases, cancerous tissues and mastopathia were found to be coexistent. Thus, morphologic studies seem to indicate that mastop-athy does play a role in the development of mammary carcinoma. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Authors	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Induction of neoplasms in rat thyroid glands by low doses of radioiodine	The development of neoplasms was studied in the thyroid glands of Long-Evans rats two years after they had received either single injections of 25 [mu]c or 4 separate injections of 10[mu]c of I131. Papillary and follicular carcinomas were observed in 12 of the I131-injected rats. Benign thyroid nodules or adenomas were observed in all but 2 of the rats given I131. Three of these adenomas were of the papillary type. Naturally occurring alveolar or lobular carcinomas were found in approximately 1/3 of the rats. The high incidence of hyperplastic and neoplastic parathyroid lesions observed in the I131-treated rats is not considered to be an irradiation effect. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Authors	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Chronology of lobular carcinoma of the breast; report of a case		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma in situ. A rare form of mammary cancer	The term lobular mammary carcinoma in situ is employed to designate a rare form of cancer occurring but twice in pure form in a series of 300 primary operable mammary cancers. Clinical and gross pathological diagnosis in the non-infiltrative phase cannot be made. Diagnosis depends on microscopic examination. Simple mastectomy is required even when infiltration is absent for the disease occurs in multiple foci. Varying periods of time may elapse before infiltration and metastasis occur. In one case, infiltration and metastasis took place in a space of a few mos. and in another, the disease remained confined for over a yr. This tumor infiltrates in a peculiar, characteristic fashion and about one mammary cancer in 20 can be traced to a lobule and terminal duct origin as shown by the infiltrative pattern combined with outlying foci of non-infiltrative carcinoma The term "totilobular mammary carcinoma" is proposed, to emphasize an origin in all the components of the mammary lobule. The term "acinar" carcinoma is rejected since the authors regard the acinus as a physiological structure of pregnancy and lactation and not as a fixed anatomic unit. || ABSTRACT AUTHORS: Authors	CarcinomaLobular	dummy
dummy	Lobular carcinoma in situ-one of the rare forms of mammary cancer		CarcinomaLobular	dummy
